No)
a
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 56 OF 1988
[Certified on 12th December, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 16, 1988
Price : Rs. 2.40 Postage Re115


National Environmental (Amendment) .
Act, No. 56 of 1988
bon >, [Wertified on 12th December, 1988] :
LD—O. 45/83
AN Act To AMEND THE NartiowaL EnvinoNMEntaL Act,
ate ‘No, 47 oF 1980.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democrati¢ Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the National Environmental short title.
(Amendment) Act, No, 56 of 1988. , x

2. The long title of the National Environmental Act, Amendment
No. 47 of 1980 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal ‘2.1R¢. re,
enactment”) is hereby amended by..the substitution, for No.4Tof"  *
the words “for the protection and management of the en- 1880.
vironment”, of the words “for the protection, management
end enhancement of the environment, for the regulation,
maintenance and control of the quality of the environment;
for the prevention, abatement and control of pollution ”.

3. ‘Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendl- Amendment
ed in subsection (1) of that section as follows:— Speecton ®

(1) by the substitution in paragraph (b) of that sub- EnastBent.

section for the words “functions and duties ; and”,
of the words “functions and duties”;

(2) by the substitution in paragraph (c) of that sub-
section, for the words in or outside Sri Lanka”, of
the words “in or outside Sri Lanka; and”; and

(8) by the addition immediately after paragraph (c) of
‘that subsection of the following new paragraph: —
« @) all such sums of money as may be received by

. the Authority as licence fee”. 0)

4. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amend- Amendment
ed in-subscetion (1) of that section by the substitution for ofthe
paragraphs (r),-(s) and (t) of the following paragraphs:— peneioat

(7) a senior officer of the Ministry of the’ Minister in-

charge of the subject of Trade and Shipping no-
minated by such Minister ;

(s) a senior officer of the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Defence nominated by such
‘Minister ;

(#) a senior officer nominated by the Minister in cnarge
of the Greater Colombo Economic ‘Commission
established under the Greater Colombo Economic
Commission Law, No. 4 of 1978;

2D 000861—10,410 (88/00)


2 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(u) the person holding office for the time being as the
Director-General of the Authority ;
(e) seven members to represent the interests of volun-
tary agencies in the field of environment ; and
(w) two members from among persons with adequate
expertise or experience in environmental protec-
tion and managment.”,
Amendment _ 5. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
stthe ed as follows :—
Principal j
ener: () by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section ;
(2) by the renumbering of subsection (1) of that sec~
tion us section 10 ;
(3) by the re-numbering of paragraphs (f), (9), (1), (@),

(i), (), © and (m) of the renumbered section

10, as (k), (1), (m), (nm), (0), (p), (9) and (7) 3 and

(4) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e) of
the re-numbered section 10, of the following new
paragraphs :—

() to be responsible for the' co-ordination of all
regulatory activities relating to the dis-
charge of wastes and pollutants into the en-
vironment and the protection and the impro-
vement of the quality of the environment ;

(g) to regulate, maintain and control the volume,
types, constituents and effects of waste, dis
charge, emissions, deposits or other sources
and subsources of pollution which are of
danger or potential danger to the quality
or the environment of any segment of the
environment ;

(h) to require the submission of proposals, for new
Projects and changes in or abandonment of
existing projects, for the purpose of evalua
tion of the beneficial and adverse impacts of
such proposals on the environment


National Environmental (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(i) to require any local authority to comply with
: and give effect to any recommendations

relating to environmental protection within

the limits of the jurisdiction of such local

authority and in particular any recommenda- ,

tions relating to all or any of the following

aspects of environmental pollution ;

() the prohibition of the unauthorized
discharge, emission or deposit of litter,
waste, garbage and sewage ;

Gi) the prevention of the discharge of
untreated sewage or substandard
industrial affluents or toxle chemicals
into soil, canals or water ways;

(ii) the prohibition of the display of posters
or bills on walls or buildings or any

: other unauthorized places and regula-
tions of the erection of advertising
hoardings ;

(iv) the prevention of the defacement of the
scenic places and public property ;

(v) the control of .the pollution of the

: atmosphere; !
(vi) the control of noise pollution; and
~ (vii) the storage, transport and disposal of
"any material which is hazardous to
health and environment ;
() to appoint special committees to assist it in
performance of its functions ;",
i i i Amendment
6. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows:— ofthe
4 : ringed
(1). in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution ®#ctment
for the words “A General Manager” of the words
“A Director-General” ;
(2) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for the words “The General Manager shall”, of
the words “the Director-General shall”;


4 National Environmental (Amendment) ©
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(8) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitu-
i tion for the words “ the General Manager shall”, of
the words “the Director-General shall”; and
“(@) by the substitution for the marginal note to that
section, of the following marginal note: —
“Director-General, |
Secretary and ‘ |
’ staff of the Authority.”,
Tnsertimot 7, ‘The following new Parts are hereby inserted imme-
Wa Wa diately after Part IV and shall have effect as Part IVa, Part
TVe in the ‘IV and Part IVc in the principal enactment :—
principal
enactment,
i yi “PART IVa
: ENvmONMENTAL PROTECTION
Prohibition 28, With effect from such date asmay be
Gischarge, appointed by the Minister by Order publish-
Gmsge" ed in the Gazette, (hereinafter referred to as
Ghcvaste nto the “relevant date”), no person shall dis-
mete charge, deposit, or emit waste into the en-
vironment which will cause pollution ex-
copt—
(@) under the authority of a licence issued
‘ by the Authority ; and
(®) in accordance with such standards
. and other criteria as may be pre-
* scribed under this Act.
Issue of 28x. (1) ‘The Authority may, on application
: being made therefore to the Authority {a
such form as may be prescribed, and on pay-
° ment of the prescribed fee, issue a licence
to any person authorizing such person to dis-
charge, deposit or emit, waste into the
environment, in accordance with such stan=
dards and criteria as may be prescribed
under this Act. .


National Environmental (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(2) Every licence issued under this Part
shall—
(@) be in such form as may be prescribed ;
: ca () be subject to such terms, conditions
and such standards es may be
: prescribed ;
i (c) be valid for such period as shall be
: specified in the licence, provided, it
shall not be for more than a period
. of twelve months ; and
(d) be renewable.
Authority 23c (1) On receiptof an application under
mayref, section 232, the Authority may, where it
108 ment  CoMSiders necessary, refer such application
Gcpartment’ to. an appropriate Government department
SrBration, OF Public corporation requesting that a re
* port be submitted on such application.
(2) Where an application is referred to
: Government department or public corpora
tion under subsection (1), the Authority
* shall not take any decision on such applica-
tion until it receives the report relating to
the same from such department or cor-
poration.
‘Suspension 230. Where a licence has been issued t»
gr cancella- any person under this Part and such person
Jicence. ___acts in violation of any of the terms, standards
. and conditions of the licence, or where since
‘the issue of the licence, the receiving en-
: vironment has been altered or changed due
re to natural factors or otherwise, or where
the continued discharge, deposit, or emission
of waste into the environment under the
Authority of the licence will or could affect
any beneficial use adversely, the Authority
may by order suspends for any period speci-
fied in such order, or cancel such licence.
Apgess 23x, (1) Any applicant for a licence under
felusal of "this Part who is aggrieved by the refusal of
poe the Authority to grant a licence, or, any
salar! ‘holder ofa licence issued under this Part
and who is aggrieved by the suspension or
“cancellation, or refusal to renew a licence so
issued may, within thirty days after the date


6 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
of the notification of such decision appeal
in writing against such refusal, suspension,
cancellation or refusal to renew, as the case
may be to the Secretary to the Ministry, of
the Minister. 2
(2) The decision of the Secretary to the
Ministry of the Minister-on any such appeal
shall be final.
PART IVs
ENVoNMENTAL QUALITY
Restreton, 286, Subject to section 23a of this Act with
Spdcontrol effect from the relevant date, no person shall
Gtine“°" deposit or emit waste into the inland waters
Es of Sri Lanka, except in accordance with such
standards or criteria as may be prescribed
under this Act.
Potton 23H. (1) No person shall pollute any inland
ouinend, waters of Sri Lanka or cause or permit to
Sti Lanka. cause pollution in the inland waters of Sri
Lanka so that the physical, chemical or
biological condition of the waters is so
: changed as to make or reasonably expected
i to make those waters or any part of those
waters unclean, noxious, poisonous, impure,
» "© detrimental to the health, welfare, safety or
: property of human beings, poisonous or
harmful to animals, birds, wildlife, fish, plants
or other forms of life or detrimental to any
benficial use made of those waters.
i (2) Without limitation to the generality
of subsection (1) a person shall be deemed
+ to contravene the provisions of that sub-
section, if—

, (a) he places in or on any waters or in a
place where it’ may gain access to
any waters any matter, whether
solid, liquid, gaseous, that is prohi-

o bited by or under this Act or by any
regulations made thereunder ;


National Environmental (Amendment) 1
Act, No. 56 of 1988
; (b) he places any waste, whether soild,
liquid, or gaseous, in a position
where it falls, decends, drains, eva-
porates, is washed, is blown or per-
colates, is likely to fall, descended,
drain, evaporate, be washed, be
blown, percolate into any waters or
on the bed of any river, stream or
other waterway when dry, or
knowingly or through his negligence,
whether directly or! indirectly,
causes or permits on such matter
to place in such a position ;

(c) he places waste on the bed, when dry,
of any river, stream or other water-
way or knowingly or through his
negligence causes or permits any
wastes to be placed on such a bed;
or

(@) he causes the temperature or inland,
costal or. off-shore waters of Sri
Lanka to be raised or lowered by
more than the prescribed limits,

(3) Every person who contravenes the
Provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty
of an offence, and on conviction shall be—

(@) liable to a fine not less than rupees
ten thousand and not exceeding
rupees one hundred thousand, and
thereafter in the event of the offence
being continued to be committed,
to a fine of rupees five hundred for
each day on which the offence is s0
continued to be committed ; and

\ (Bb) required to take within such period
cas may be determined by court, such
corrective measures as may be

deemed necessary to prevent further

damage being caused to the inland,

coastal and offshore waters of Sri

Lanka and furnish at the end of

such period sufficient and accepta~

ble proof of the incorporation of


8 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
' . such corrective measures. The court
nostibog 5 shall also order such person convict
> a ed, to bear the expenses that may
i have been incurred by the authority
><" in the correction of damage already
* caused as a consequence of the com-
‘e13! vs mission of such offence, and where
fi - such person fails to bear the expen-
J ‘ses so incurred be recovered in like
manner as a fine imposed by the
. a court.
; sos (4): Where’ any person convicted of an
offence under subsection (3) continues to
‘ _... commit such offence after a period of six
- weeks from the date of his conviction, the
- “court may upon an application for closure
being made by the Director-General or any
a officer authorized in that behalf by the Direc-
tor-General order the closure of such factory
ini 2. © or trade, or business being carried at such
premises, which caused the pollution of in-
Jand, coastal or off-shore waters of Sri Lanka,
ni! buntil such time such person takes adequate
5 corrective measures to prevent further
° damage being caused.
(5) In any case where such person fails
F + to comply with the closure order issued
vs» under subsection (4), the Magistrate shall
* forthwith order the fiscal of the court requir-
*//\*"<~ ing and authorizing such fiscal before a date
- “45,.) Specified in such order not being a date
a earlier than thrée or later than seven clear
days from the date of issue of such order to
pig close such factory or trade or business being
un carried at such premises, Such order shall
oy ‘be sufficient authority for the said fiscal or
‘any police officer authorized by him in that
behalf to enter the premises with such
assistants as the fiscal or such police officer
shall deem necessary to close such factory
or trade or business being carried at such
premises, .


National tnvironmental (Amendment) 9
Act, No. 56 of 1988
Restriction 233. Subject to section 23a of this Act
Sppollution vith effect from the relevant date, no person
Stmosphere. shall discharge or emit waste into the atmos-
phere except in accordance with such stan-
dards or criteria as may be prescribed under
this Act.

Pollution ot ‘23x. (1) No person shall pollute the atmos.
"phere or cause or permit the atmosphere to
be polluted so that the physical, chemical or
biological condition of the atmosphere is so
changed as to make or reasonably be expect-
ed to make the atmosphere or any part the-
teof unclean, noxious, ‘poisonous, impure,
detrimental to the health, welfare, safety, or
property of human beings, poisonous or
hurmful to animals, birds, wildlife, plant or
all other forms of life or detrimental to any

beneficial use of the atmosphere.

(2) Without limitation to the generality
of subsection (1) a person shall be deemed to
contravene that subsection if—

(@ he places in or in such manner that it
may be released into the atmos-
phere, any matter, whether liquid,
solid, or gaseous, that is prohibited
by or under this Act or by any re-

\_ gulation made thereunder to be
E placed in the atmosphere or does not
comply with any regulations pres-

cribed therefore under this Act ;

(®) he causes or permits the discharge of
odours which by virtue of their
nature, concentration, volume, or

. extent are obnoxious or unduly off-
ensive to the senses of human be-
ings;

‘ (©) he burns, wastes otherwise than at
times of in the manner or place
prescribed ;

3D 000861 (3/00)


10 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(@) he uses an internal combustion engine

or fuel burning equipment not equi-
pped with any device required by
the regulations to be fitted to such
engine for the prevention or redue-
tion of pollution ; or

. (e) he uses or burns any fuel which is |
probibited by regulations made un- |

“ der this Act.

(3)Every person who contravenes the
Frovisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty |
of an offence, and on conviction shall be— |

(2) liable to a fine not less than rupees

ten thousand and not exceeding
Tepees one hundred thousand and
thereafter in’ the event of the

‘ " offence being continued to be

{ committed, to a fine of rupees
five hundred for each day on which
the offence is so continued to be

; . * committed ;
(b) required to take within such period
as may be determined by court, such
i corrective measures may be deemed
necessary, to prevent further
: damage being caused by the pollu-
. tion of atmosphere, and furnish at
. the end of such period sufficient and
. acceptable proof of the incorpora-
tion of such corrective measures.
5 The court shall also require such
person convicted to bear the expen-
ses incurred by the authority in the
correction of damage already caused
as a result of the commission of such

offence.

(4) Where any person convicted of an
offence under subsection (3) continues to
commit such offence after a period of six
sweeks from the date of his conviction, the
court may upon an application for closure
being made by the Director-General or eny


National Environmental (Amendment) u
Act, No. 56 of 1988

officer authorized in that behalf by the Direc-
tor-General order the closure of such factory,
trade or business being carried at such pre-
mises which cause the pollution of atmos-
phere until such time, such person takes ade-
quate corrective measures to prevent further
damage being caused.

(5) In any case where such person fails to
comply with the closure order issued under
subsection (5), the Magistrate shall forth-
with order the fiscal of the court requiring
and authorizing such fiscal, before a date
specified in such order not being a date ear-

s lier than three or later than seven clear days
from the date of issue of such order to close
such factory or trade or business being carri-
ed at such premises. Such order shall be
sufficient authority for the said fiscal or any
police officer authorized by him in that be-
half to enter the premises with such assis-
tants as the fiscal or such police officer shall
deem necessary to close such factory or trade
or business being carried at such premises.

Epllure to 231. Any person who owns, uses, operates,
palate constructs, sells, installs or offers to sell
fonteal or install any machinery, vehicle or
Gflence, "boat required by or under this Act
or any regulation made thereunder to
be built, fitted or equipped with any
device for preventing or limiting pollution
of the atmosphere without such machinery,
vehicle or boat being so built, fitted or equi-
pped shall be guilty of an offnece. All de-
vices built, fitted or equipped under this sec-
tion shall be maintained and operated at the
cost of the owner.
Resteletlon, 23m. Subject to section 23a of this Act,
pe control with effect from the relevant date, no person
of the soil. shall discharge or deposit waste into the soil,
ni except in accordance with such standards or
criteria as may be prescribed under this Act-


@ National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
Pollution 23N. (1) No person shall pollute or cause
Strenes or permit to be polluted any soil or the sur-
face of any land so that the physical, chemi-
“eal or biological condition of the soil or sur-
face is so changed as to make or be reason-
ably expected to make the soil or the pro-
duce of the soil poisonous or impure, harmful
or potentially harmful to the health or wel-
fare of human beings, posionous or harmful
to animals, birds, wildlife, plants or all
other forms of life or obnoxious or, unduly
offensive to the senses of human beings or so
as to be detrimental to any beneficial use of
the land.

(2) Without limitation to the generality of

subsection (1) a person shall be deemed to
4 contravene that subsection if—

(@) he places in or on any soil or in any
place where it may gain access to
any soil, any matter, whether liquid,
solid or gaseous, that is prohibited
by or under this act or any regula-
tion made thereunder or does not
comply with such regulations as may
be prescribed ; and

(b) he establishes on any land a refuse
dump, garbage tip, soil and rock dis-
posal site, slndge deposit site, waste
injection well, or otherwise uses
land for the disposal of or reposi-
tory for solid or liquid wastes so as
to be obnoxious or unduly offensive

\ to the senses of human beings . or
will pollute or adversely affect un-
derground water or be detrimental
to any beneficial use of the soil or the
surface of the land.

(8) Prior exemptions may, however, be
granted for valid reasons such as the appli-
cation of an approved preparation in a pre-
scribed manner for the control of a given
est, provided that such treatment does not
damages the soil seriously.


National Environmental (Amendment) 1B
Act, No, 56 of 1988

(4) Any person who contravenes any of
the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of anoffence and on conviction be liable to a
fine not less than rupees ten thousand and
not exceeding rupees one hundred thousand
and in the case of a continuing offence toa
fine of rupees five hundred for every day on
which the offence continues after conviction.

Restriction 23p, Subject to section 234 of this Act,

pallution, with effect from the relevant date no person
shall permit the emission of excessive
noise, unless be complies with such stan
dards or limitations as may be prescribed
under this Act in regard to the volume, in
tensity or quality of such noise,

Discharge 239. (1) No person shall make or emit or

poise the cause or permit to be made or emitted noise

Hieensea, greater in volume, intensity or quality than
the levels prescribed for tolerable noise ex-
cept under the authority of a licence issued
by the Authority under this Act.

(2) The provisions of sections 238, 23c, 230
and 23k shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and
in relation to the issue of a license under
subsection (1).

(8) Any authority, or institution em-
powered by any other written law to issue
licences relating to any of the matters re-
ferred to in this Act, shall, conform to the
standards specified under this Act.

Excessive 23x, (1) Any person who without a licence

atfence. or contrary te any condition, limitation or
restriction to which a licence under this Act
or any other written law is subject, makes
or causes or permits to be made or emitted
noise that is greater in volume, intensity or
quality then the standard as may be pres-

4 cribed for the emission of noise which is
tolerable noise in the circumstances, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act.

4D 00801 (68/00)


4 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(2) Any person who is guilty of an offence

under subsection (1) shall on conviction be
Uable to a fine not less than rupees ten thou-
sand and not exceeding rupees one hundred
thousand and in the case of a continuing
offence to a fine of rupees five hundred for
every day in which the offence continues
after conviction,

Notice to 23s. Where the Authority is of opinion

tier that the circumstances are such that any
litter deposited in any place, whether public
or private, is or is likely to become detrimen-
tal to the health, safety or walfare of mem-
bers of the public, unduly offensive to. the
senses of human beings or a hazard to the

. ~ environment, the Authority may by notice in
‘writing direct the person who, is responsible
for depositing such litter or any public autho-
rity whose function is to dispose of or re-
move such litter, to remove or dispose of such
Jitter or to take such action in relation to
such litter as may be specified in the notice.

For the purposes of this section “litter”

means unwanted waste material whether a
by product which has arisen during a manu-
facturing process or a product which has
Passed its useful working life and has been
discarded. =

Coste 23r. The cost of removing or otherwise

Hier may be disposing of or reducing litter pursuant to a

Beooren notice given under section 23s may be

person recovered in ony court of competent jurisdi-

responsible. tion against any person proved to have
deposited the litter, as a deb: due to the
Authority and when recovered shall be paid
to the fund of the Authority.

Failureta,, 23, Any person to whom a notice in

alitean writing under section 23s is directed and
who fails withcut reasonable cause to comply
with the requirements of the notice shall,
if proved be guilty of an offence.


National Environmental (Amendment) 18
Act, No. 56 of 1988
Prohibition 23v. (1) No person shall discharge or spill
gndischarge any oil or mixture containing oil into the
ingndwaters \ inland waters of Sri Lanka.
Yanks.

(2) Any person who contravenes the pro-
visions of subsection (1) shail be liable on
conviction to a fine not less than rupees ten
thousand and not exceeding rupees one
hundred thousand or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years.

Power to 23w. (1) The Minister may by Order
Figuireuse published in the Gazette—

of

feattil or (a) prohibit the use of any materials for
“ee any process, trade or industry ;

() prohibit whether by description or by
brand name the use of any equip-
ment or industrial plant,

which will endanger the quality of the
environment, within the areas specified in
the Order.

(2) The Minister may by Order published
in the Gazette require the installation, repair,
maintenance or operation of any equipment
or industrial plant within the areas specified
in the Order.

(3) Any person who contravenes any
probibition or fails to comply with any
requirement in any Order made under sub-
sections (1) and (2), shall be guilty of an
offence.

Certificate 23v, In any prosecution for an offence

Hust CHM’, under this Part of this Act, a certificate

of facta issued under the hand of the Director-

ihecin, General to the effect that the pollution speci-
fied in the certificate has been caused to the
environment, shall be admissible in evidence,
and shall be prima facie proof of the matters
contained therein,


16 National Environmental (Amendment)
. Act, No. 56 of 1988
PART IVe
Approval of Projects

Proc 23, For the purposes of this Part of this

aeineies® Act, the Minister may by Order published in
the Gazette specify the state agencies (here-
inafter in this Part referred to as “ project
approving egencies”) which shall be the
project approving agencies,

Prescribed 232, The Minister shall by Order published

projects, in the Gazette determine the projects and
undertakings (hereinafter referred to as
“prescribed projects”) in respect of which
approval would be necessary under the pro-
visions of this Part of this Act.

Approvelof __23aa. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions

Projects, of any other written law, from and after the
coming into operation of this Act, all pres-
eribed projects that are being undertaken
in Sri Lanka by any Government depart-
ment, corporation, statutory beard, local
authority, company, firm or an individual
will be required to obtain approval under
this Act for the. implementation of such
prescribed projects.

(2) The approval referced to in subsection
(1) shall have to be obtained from the
appropriate project approving agencies con-
cerned or connected with such prescribed
project :
Provided however, in respect of certain

precribed projects to be determined by the
Minister, the project approving agency will
grant its approval only with the concurrence
of the Authority,

Submission 23nn. (1) Tt shall be the duty of all projects

mental , approving agencies to require from any

assessment Government department, _—_ corporation,

aaa statutory board, local authority, company,
firm or individual who submit any preserib-


National Envivonmental (Amendment) "
Act, No. 56 of 1988

ed project for its approval to submit within

a specified time an initial environmental

examination report or an environmental

impact assessment report as requized by the

project approving agency relating to such

project and containing such information and

particulars as may be prescribed by the
Minister for the purpose.

(2) A project approving agency shall on
receipt of an initial environmental examina-
tion report or an environmental impact
assessment report, as the case may be, sub-
mitted to such project approving agency in
compliance with the requirement imposed
under subsection (1), by notice published in
‘the Gazette and in one newspaper each in
the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,
notify the place and times at which such
report shall be available for inspection by
the public, and invite the public to make
its comments, if any, thereon.

(3) Any member of the publie may with-
in thirty days of the date on which a notice
under subsection (2) is published make his
or its comments, if any, thereon to the pro-
ject approving agency which published such
notice, and such project approving agency
may, where it considers appropriate in the
public interest afford an opportunity to any

. such person of being heard in support of his
comments, and shall have regard to such
comments and any other materials if any,
clicited at any such hearing, in determining
whether to grant its approval for the imple-
mentation of such prescribed project.

(4) Where approval is granted for the
implementation of any prescribed project,
such approval shall be published in the
Gazette and in one newspaper each in
‘Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.


18 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988 :
Procedureto , 23cc. The project approving agencies shall
Pegeieso? “determine the procedure it shall adopt in
Prescribed, approving any prescribed projects submitted
/ to it for approval. Such procedure shall be
based on the guide’ines prescribed by the
Minister for such purpose.
Appealto the 2800, (1) Where a project approving
fheMinstry agency refuses to grant approval for any
shine preser:bed project submitted for its approval,
are ‘the person or body of persons aggrieved shall
have « right to appeal against such decision
to the Secretary to the Ministry, of the
Minister,
(2) The decision of the Secretary to the
Ministry on such appeal of the Minister shall
be final.
Abandonment 23k, Where any alterations are being
Generation made to any preseribed project for which
Prescribed approval bad been gronted or where any
cael preseriived project already approved is being
abandoned, the Government department,
corporation, statutory board, local authority,
company, firm or individual who obtained
such approval, shall inform the appropriate
Project approving agency of such alterations,
or the abandonment as the case may be, ond
i. where necessary obtain fresh approval in
respect of any alterations that are intended
to be made to such prescribed project for
which approval had already been granted :
Provided however, where such prescribed
project that is being abandoned or altered is
a project approved with the concurrence of
the Authority, the Authority should also be
informed of it and ony fresh approval that
need to be obtained should be given only
with the concurrence of the Authority.
Submission 23rr. It shall be the duty of all projects
onapproved —APProving agencies to forward to the Autho-
Peescefood. rity a report on each prescribed project for
Se which approval is granted by such agency. ”.


National Environmental (Amendment) 9
Act, No. 56 of 1988

& The following new section is hereby inserted imme- Insertion ot
diately after section 24, and shall have effect as section 24. 34," inte
of the principal enactmtnt :— Brincpal *

“Power to 24a, (1) The Director-General or any

Siapece* other officer duly authorized in writing by

him may at any time enter any land or

premises and may—
_ (a) examine and inspect any equipment
or industrial plant ;

(b) take samples of any pollutants that
are emitted, discharged or deposited
or are likely to be of a class or kind
that are usually emitted, discharged
or deposited from such equipment or
industrial plant ;

(©) examine any books, records or docu-
ments relating to the performance
or use of such equipment, or indus-
trial plant or relating to the emiss-
ion, discharge or deposit from such
equipment or industrial plant ;

(d) take photographs of such equipment
or industrial plant as he considers

a necessary or make copies of any
books, records or documents seen in
i the course of such examination ; or
\ (e) take sample of any fuel, substance or
material used, likely to be used or
usually used in such trade, industry
. or process carried on in or on such
premises.

(2) The Director-General or the officer
authorized by him may, where “he has
reasonable cause to apprehend any serious
obstructions in the execution of his duties
under subsection (1), enter any land or
premises accompanied by a pUlice officer.


20 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988

(8) Any person who prevents or obstructs
2 the Director-General or an authorized officer
{in carrying out such inspection or investiga-
tion, recording of data or the taking of
samples under subsection (1) shall be guilty

of an offence under this Act.

Authority 24, (1) The Authority shall have the

‘issue :

Gircclites. power to issue directives to any person
engaged in or about to engage in any develop-
ment project or scheme which is causing or is
ely to cause, damage, or detriment to the
environment, regarding the measures to be
taken in order to prevent or abate such
damage or detriment, and it shall be the duty

- _ “ofsuch person to comply with such directive.

i (@) Where a person fails to comply with

: any directives issued under subsection (1),

- the Magistrate may, on application made by
the Authority, order the temporary suspen-
sion of such project or scheme until such
person takes the measures specified in such
directive.

Declaration 24. (1) The Minister may by Order

Shvitren- published in the Gazette declare any area to

Hovaress. be an environmental protection area (here-
inafter referred to as a“ protection area”).

. (2) An Order under subsection (1) declar-
" ing an area as a protection area, shall define
that area by setting out the metes and bounds
af such area.
Applicability 240, (1) Where any area has been declared
pee to be a prptection area, the Minister may by
protetim Oder published in the Gazette declare that
any planning scheme or project in a protec-
tion area under the provisions of any law
which is in confliet with any provisions of
a 8 this Act, shall cease to operate in that area.


National Environmental (Amendment) a
Act, No. 56 of 1988
. (2) So long as an Order under subsection
(1) is: in force, the Authority shall be
responsible for physical planning of such
area in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.

(8) Notwithstanding the” provisions of
subsection (1) the Minister may, at the
request of the Authority, declare from time
to time by Order published in the Gazette,
that with effect from such date as shall be
specified in such Order, the Authority shall
cease to be the authority responsible for the
planning in such protection area.

(4) So long as an Order under section 24
being in force in relation to a protection area
no person other than the Authority shall
exercise, perform and discharge any powers,
duties and functions relating to planning and
development within such protection area.”.

9. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby amend- Amendment
i of section 28
ed as follows :— Shih
principal
(1) by the repeal of subsections (1) and (2) of that sec- enactment.
tion and substitution therefore of the following sub-
sections :—

+ (1) Subject to subsection (5), the Authority
may by order, delegate any of its powers, duties
and functions under this Act to any Government
department, corporation, statutory buard, local
authority or any public officer.

(2) Where the Authority has delegated any
power under subsection (1) to any Government
department, corporation, statutory board, local
authority or any public officer, any officer of such
Governmient department, corporation, statutory
board or local authority as the ease may be, or such
public officer, may exercise any of the powers
which the Director-General would be able to
exercise has he seen exercising the powers him-
self,


22 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(2) by the mmission of paragraph (b) of subsection (5)
of that section and the substitution therefore of the
following paragraph :—

(b) in respect of any Government department,
corporation, statutory board or public officer,
excopt with the concurrence of the Minister
in charge of such Government department or
corporation or statutory board, or the depart-
ment in which such public officer is
employed. ”.

Replacement 40. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby

of;gction St repealed and the following section substituted therefore :—

principal

en, “Penalty 31, Every person who contravenes or fails
for offences to comply with any provisions of this Act or

‘no punish of any regulations made thereunder for

ary which no punishment is expressly provided

provided for. for shall be guilty of an offence and on convi-
ction before a Magistrate shall be liable to
imprisonment of either description for a
term not exceeding two years or to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees or to both
such imprisonment and fine. ”.
Replacement 1. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
Of ¢etion 32 spealed and the following section substituted therefore :—
Principal
Snactment,

“Regulations. 32. (1) The Minister may make regula-
tions in respect of all matters which are
stated or are required by this Act to be
prescribed or for which regulations are
required by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice
to the generality ef the powers conferred by
subsection (1) the Minister may make
regulations in respect of all or any of the
following matters :—

(a) levy of fees for—

(i) examining plans, specifications
and information relating to
installations or proposed
installations ;


National Environmental (Amendment) 23
Act, No, 56 of 1988
(ii) the issue of licences under this
Act; and
(ii) carrying out niecessary moni:
toring duties ;

(®) specification of standards or criteria
for the implementation of any
national environmental policy or
classification for the protection of
the environment and for protec-
ting beneficial uses ;

(©) specification of standards or criteria
for determining whether any
matter, action or thing is poisonous,
objectionable, detrimental to health
or within any other description or
referred to in this Act ;

(@) prohibition of the discharge, emission,
or deposit into the environment of
any matter, whether liquid, solid,
or gaseous, or of radio activity and
prohibition or regulating the use of
any specified fuel ;

(e) specification of ambient air quality
standard and emission standards
and specifying the maximum per-
missible concentartions of any
matter that may be present in or
discharge into the atmosphere;

() prohibition of the use of any equip-
ment, facility, vehicle or boat
capable of causing pollution or regu-
Jating the construction, installation
or operation thereof so as to prevent
or minimise pollution ;

(g) requirement of issuing pollution
warnings or alerts;


4 National Environmental (Amendment)
Acct, No. 56 of 1988

(h) prohibition or regulation of the open
burning of refuse or other combus-
tible matter ;

(® regulation of the establishment of sites
for the disposal of solid or liquid
waste on or in land ;

(J) determination of objectionable noise
and specification of standards for
tolerable noise;

(%) prohibition of or regulation of bath-
ing, swimming, boating or other
activity in or around any waters
that may be determintal to health or
welfare or having adverse cultural
‘effects or for preventing pollution ;

(1) requirement that the oil refineries and
installations operating in Sri Lanka
store such substance or material
and equipment necessary to deal
with any oil pollution of the inland
waters of Sri Lanka that may arise
in the course of their business ;

(m) requirement that the oil refineries
carrying on business install such
z equipment as may be prescribed for
‘ the purpose of reducing or prevent-
ing any trade affluent from con-
taining ofl ;
(n) prescribing the procedure relating to
appeals against the decision of the
Authority 5
(0) relating to visual amenities in urban
and rural areas ;
(p) storage and transportation of harmo-
r nious materials ;
(q) disposal of wastes and hazardous
materials whether to the atmos-
phere, waters or soil ; and


National Environmental (Amendment) %
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(7) requirement of specific enviromental
monitoring duties by the developer
or a specified third party delegated
for this purpose.

(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on the date on such publication or upon such later
date as may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval.
Every regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval but without prejudice to anything pre-
viously done thereunder. Notification of the date
on which any regulation is deemed to be rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.

12, Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment

amended as follows :— tthe

(a) by the insertion, immediately before the definition Principal
of “beneficial use”, of the following new defini-
tion :—

‘air pollution” means an undesireble change in
the physical, chemical and biological charac-
teristics of air which will adversely affect
plants, animals, human beings and inanimate
objects ;”

(b) by the insertion, immediately after the defiinition of
“environment” of the following new definitions :—
“environmental impact assessment report” means

a written analysis of the predicted environ-
mental project and containing an environ-
. mental cost-benefit analysis, if such an
analysis has been prepared, and including a
descripti-a of the project, and includes a
deseviption of the avoidable and unavoidable
adverse environmental effect of the proposed
prescribed project ; a description of alterna-
tive to the activity which might be less
harmful to the environment together with
the reasons why such alternatives were
ejected, and a description of any irreversible
8 or irretrieable commitments of resources
Tequired by the proposed prescribed project ;


6 National Environmental (Amendment)
Act, No. 56 of 1988

“ initial environmental examination report” means a
written report wherein possible impacts of the
prescribed project on the environment shall be
assessed with a view to determining whether such
impacts are significant, and as such requires the
prepartion of an environmental impact assessment
report and such report shall contain such further
details, descriptions, data, maps, desings and
other information and details as may be prescribed
by the minister ;’;

(©) by the repeal of the definition “local authority” and
substitution therefore of the following definition :—
“"Jocal authority” means any Municipal Council.

Urban Council, or Dvelopment Council, and
includes any Authority created and establish-
‘ed by or under any law to exercise, perform
and discharge powers, duties and functions
corresponding to or similar to powers, duties
and functions exercised, performed and dis-
charged, by any such Council ;?;

(d) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of

“Jocal authority”, of the following new defiini-
tions :—

“noise pollution ” means the presence of sound at
a level which causes irritation, fatigue,
hearing loss or interfers with the perception
of other sounds and with creative activity
through distraction ;

“pollutant” means any substance whether liquid,
solid or gaseous which directly or indirectly—
(a) alters the quality of any segment or ele-
ment of the receiving environment so
as to effect any beneficial use adversely;
or
(b) is hazardous or potentially hazardous to
health ;’; and


National Environmental (Amendment) 21
Act, No. 56 of 1988
(@) by the insertion, immediately after the defiinition
of “territorial waters”, of the following new defini-
tion:—

““toxie chemical” means a substance characterised
by definite molecular composition which has
harmful effects on living material or which
can create hazardous changes in the environ-
ment.’.
