PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PAVITHRA WANNIARACHCHI SAHURDAFOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 31 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 15/2022

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE PAVITHRA WANNIARACHCHISAHURDA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as the PavithraWanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Foundation according to the rules agreed to by itsmembers as set out herein:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied to beincorporated and it will be for the public advantage to grantthe said application:

BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Pavithra WanniarachchiSahurda Foundation (Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of thePavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as the Foundation) and shall hereafter beadmitted as members of the body Corporate herebyconstituted shall have perpetual succession under the nameand style of the Pavithra Wanniarachchi SahurdaFoundation (hereinafter referred to as the body Corporate),and by that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

Short title

Preamble

Incorporation ofthe PavithraWanniarachchiSahurdaFoundation

2Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. (1) Subject to any other written law, to the extentpermitted by such law, the general objects for which thebody corporate is constituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to promote and educate people on the life and theworks of the late Darmadasa Wanniarachchi andthe invaluable services rendered by him to people;

(b)to assist the relevant authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities-

(i) to organize cultural programmes to promotesocial and cultural values of different ethnicgroups of Sri Lanka;

(ii) to organize programmes to promote racial andreligious harmony and co-operation amongpeople of Sri Lanka; and

(iii) to promote the welfare facilities of people ofSri Lanka.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any of such grounds.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment, or of any Provincial Council, any localauthority or any public corporation.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the management and administration ofthe affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aBoard of Directors (hereinafter referred to as the Board)consisting of such number of office bearers as may bespecified by rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of Directors of the Foundation holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules madeunder paragraph (b) of this subsection, function as the InterimBoard of the body corporate until the first Board is appointedor elected in the manner provided for by rules made undersection 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporate shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporatenot inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board of the bodycorporate shall be taken by the majority of its memberspresent.

(d)The first Board of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year from the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork ofMinistry orDepartment ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil etc

4Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for aperiod of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradviser shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter the lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to thedeath, resignation, incapacity or removal from office of anoffice bearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules ofthe body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and things as are necessaryor desirable for the achievement of the objects of the bodycorporate or any one of them, including the power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as determined by theBoard with a view to promoting the objects of thebody corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind for the attainment of the objects of the bodycorporate:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities, as maybe determined by the body corporate in terms ofrules made under section 7 of this Act;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate; and

6Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(j)to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purpose of the body corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act, or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appoinment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and servantsof the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board or notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be a memberof the Board and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

Rules of thebody corporate

7Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)of section 5 and subsection (1) of this section shall bepublished in the Gazette within three months upon makingof such rules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

(4) Every rule made under paragraph (b) of subsection (2)of section 5 and subsection (1) of this section shall withinthree months of its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be deposited inone or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of thebody corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c).

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

8Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by thebody corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor and be certified by suchqualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherInstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practise as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such Institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountscertified by a qualified auditor, to the Secretary of theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of

Annual Report

Accounts andAuditing

9Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs and to theRegistrar of Voluntary Social Service Organizationsappointed under the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 beforethe expiration of six months of the year succeeding the yearto which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

10Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Board who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orother body corporate.

18.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:

bank means a bank licensed under the provisions ofthe Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

local authority shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression in the Constitution;

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Seal of the bodycorporate

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Interpretation

11Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

public corporation shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression in the Constitution; and

written law shall have the same meaning assigned tosuch expression in the Constitution.

19.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

12Pavithra Wanniarachchi Sahurda Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 31 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.