PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

MEDICAL (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 46 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 15th of August, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 16, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 20241

[Certified on 15th of August, 2024]

L. D.- O. 2/2024

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDICAL ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 105)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Medical (Amendment)Act, No. 46 of 2024.

2. Section 19 of the Medical Ordinance (Chapter 105)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (f) thereof, by the substitution for thewords universities and other institutions. of thewords universities and other institutions;; and

(2)immediately after paragraph (f) thereof, by theaddition of the following:-

(g)the criteria of recognizing and renewal ofrecognition of any medical qualificationrelating to any degree programme conductedby a recognized university or institution;

(h)the criteria of adopting the internationalranking and categorization of any recognizeduniversity or institution in recognizing themedical qualification relating to any degreeprogramme conducted by any recognizeduniversity or institution;

(i)the procedure to be followed in approvingany medical qualification relating to degreesobtained from a recognized university orinstitution; and

Short title

Amendment ofsection 19 ofChapter 105

2Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 2024

(j)the evaluation criteria and conditions inrespect of any examination to practicemedicine or dentistry in Sri Lanka for citizensof Sri Lanka holding any medicalqualification relating to any degree obtainedfrom any foreign university or institution..

3. Section 19C of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following:-

(2A) Upon receipt of any comments from arecognized university or institution undersubsection (2), the Minister shall refer suchcomments together with the recommendationmade by the Medical Council under subsection(1) to a committee consisting of the followingmembers:-

(a)the Additional Secretary (MedicalServices) of the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofHealth; and

(b)four other eminent Professors in themedical field nominated by theSecretary to the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject ofHealth in consultation with theUniversity Grants Commission.;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

Amendment ofsection 19C ofthe principalenactment

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 20243

(3) Where the Minister after examining therecommendation made by the Medical Councilunder subsection (1) and the comments, if any, madeby a recognized university or institution undersubsection (2), and in consultation with thecommittee appointed under subsection (2A), issatisfied that

(a)the course of study provided by suchuniversity or institution leading tothe grant or conferment of a medicalqualification;

(b)the degree of proficiency requiredat examinations held by suchuniversity or institution for grant orconferment of such qualification;

(c)the staff, equipment,accommodation and facilitiesprovided by such university orinstitution for such course of study,

do not conform to the prescribed standards, he shall,declare by Order published in the Gazette that anyprovision of this Ordinance which enables the holderof such qualification to be registered under thisOrdinance shall cease to have effect in relation tosuch university or institution or in relation to anyinstitution affiliated to such university, from suchdate as specified in such Order..

4Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 2024

4. Section 19E of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the expression recognizeduniversity or institution, by the substitution for the wordsany university or institution of the words any universityor institution, or any institution affiliated to such universitywhether local or foreign.

5. Section 29 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution inparagraph (b) (ii) (bb), for the words recognizedby the Medical Council of the words recognizedby the Medical Council as shall be prescribed,;

(2)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution inparagraph (b) (iv) (bb) (i) for the words recognizedby the Medical Council of the words recognizedby the Medical Council as shall be prescribed,;

(3)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution inparagraph (b) (iii) (bb) (i) for the words recognizedby the Medical Council of the words recognizedby the Medical Council as shall be prescribed,;and

(4)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution inparagraph (b) (iii) (bb) (ii) for the words recognizedby the Medical Council of the words recognizedby the Medical Council as shall be prescribed,.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment ofsection 19E ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 29 ofthe principalenactment

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 46 of 20245

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.