PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

AYURVEDA (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 19 OF 2023

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th of October, 2023]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 60.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 13, 2023

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20231

Short title

Amendment of theLong Title to Act,No. 31 of 1961

[Certified on 09th of October, 2023]

L.D.O. 39/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE AYURVEDA ACT, NO. 31 OF 1961

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Ayurveda (Amendment)Act, No. 19 of 2023.

2. The long title of the Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the substitution for the words commencing fromFOR THE REGISTRATION OF AYURVEDAHOSPITALS to the words DISPENSARIES ATTACHEDTHERETO; of the following: -

FOR THE REGISTRATION OF AYURVEDA HOSPITALS,AYURVEDA PHARMACIES, AYURVEDADISPENSARIES, AYURVEDA STORES, HERBALCULTIVATIONS AND HERBAL GARDENS FORRESEARCH AND EXTENTION; FOR THEESTABLISHMENT OF AN AYURVEDA MEDICALCOUNCIL TO REGISTER AYURVEDA PRACTITIONERS,AYURVEDA PHARMACISTS, AYURVEDA NURSES ANDAYURVEDA MASSAGE THERAPISTS AND TO DEALWITH MATTERS RELATING TO THEIR PROFESSIONALCONDUCT; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF ANAYURVEDA EDUCATION AND HOSPITAL BOARD TODISCHARGE CERTAIN FUNCTIONS IN RELATION TOTHE AWARD OF DIPLOMAS, CERTIFICATES, DEGREESAND POSTGRATUATE DEGREES IN RELATION TO THEEDUCATION AND TRAINING IN AYURVEDA AND TODEAL WITH MATTERS RELATING TO THE AYURVEDANATIONAL HOSPITAL, AYURVEDA TEACHINGHOSPITALS, AYURVEDA RESEARCH HOSPITALS ANDTHE PHARMACIES, HERBARIA AND DISPENSARIESATTACHED THERETO;.

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20232

3. (1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw, there shall be substituted for the words theCommissioner for Ayurveda, Ayurvedic MedicalCouncil, ayurvedic hospitals, ayurvedic pharmacy,ayurvedic pharmacies, ayurvedic dispensary, ayurvedicdispensaries, ayurvedic store , ayurvedic stores,ayurvedic practitioners, ayurvedic pharmacists,ayurvedic nurses, the Central Hospital of Ayurveda andthe Ayurvedic Research Committee, of the wordsCommissioner-General for Ayurveda, Ayurveda MedicalCouncil, Ayurveda hospitals, Ayurveda pharmacy,Ayurveda pharmacies, Ayurveda dispensary, Ayurvedadispensaries, Ayurveda store , Ayurveda stores,Ayurveda practitioners, Ayurveda pharmacists,Ayurveda nurses, the Ayurveda National Hospital andthe Ayurveda Research Committee, respectively.

(2) Every reference to the Commissioner for Ayurveda,Ayurvedic Medical Council, ayurvedic hospitals,ayurvedic pharmacy, ayurvedic pharmacies, ayurvedicdispensary, ayurvedic dispensaries, ayurvedic store ,ayurvedic stores, ayurvedic practitioners, ayurvedicpharmacists, ayurvedic nurses, the Central Hospital ofAyurveda and the Ayurvedic Research Committee ,appearing in any notice, notification or other document shallbe read and construed as a reference to the Commissioner-General for Ayurveda, Ayurveda Medical Council,Ayurveda hospitals, Ayurveda pharmacy, Ayurvedapharmacies, Ayurveda dispensary, Ayurvedadispensaries, Ayurveda store , Ayurveda stores,Ayurveda practitioners, Ayurveda pharmacists,Ayurveda nurses, the Ayurveda National Hospital andthe Ayurveda Research Committee, respectively.

(3) Every reference to the Commissioner in sections 3,4, 6,8, 9,10, 11, 13, 15, 22, 23, 24, 26, 33, 34, 35, 37, and 75in the principal enactment shall be read and construed as areference to the Commissioner-General of Ayurveda.

GeneralAmendments

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20233

(4) Every reference to the Council in sections 11 to 21,42, 50 to 63, 71 and 81 in the principal enactment shall beread and construed as a reference to the Ayurveda MedicalCouncil.

4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the words,Deputy Commissioners for Ayurveda, of the wordsAdditional Commissioner-Generals for Ayurveda,Commissioners for Ayurveda, Deputy Commissioners forAyurveda,.

5. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words, Deputy Commissionersfor Ayurveda, of the words Additional Commissioner-Generals for Ayurveda, Commissioners for Ayurveda,Deputy Commissioners for Ayurveda,.

6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words, Deputy Commissionersfor Ayurveda, of the words Additional Commissioner-Generals for Ayurveda, Commissioners for Ayurveda,Deputy Commissioners for Ayurveda,.

7. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor:-

7. The objects of the Act shall be -

(a) the provision of-

(i) establishments and servicesnecessary for the treatment ofdiseases; and

(ii) the primary health care,

according to ayurveda;

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipal enactment

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipal enactment

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipal enactment

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipal enactment

Objects of theAct

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20234

(b) the encouragement of the study of, andresearch in, ayurveda by the grant ofscholarships and other facilities to personsemployed or proposed to be employed inthe Department and by the grant offinancial aid and other assistance toinstitutions providing courses of study orengaged in research in ayurveda;

(c) the taking, development or encouragementof measures for the investigation ofdiseases, and for the improvement ofpublic health, according to ayurveda;

(d) the management of any herbariumestablished under section 8;

(e) the provision for the wellbeing of peopleby creating and maintaining orderly andefficient practices of Ayurveda medicineand surgery;

(f)the assurance of high professionalstandards by regulating performance andactivities of registered Ayurvedaprofessionals; and

(g) the provision of quality Ayurveda articles,substances, and drugs and the managementof any Herbal Gardens for Research andExtension or herbal cultivation byimplementing provisions of the Codereferred to in section 77, by theDepartment or through any Bodyestablished under Part VI of the Act forthat purpose..

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20235

8. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 7A:-

7A. (1) The moneys granted from theConsolidated Fund from time to time shall beutilized in carrying out the objects of the Act.

(2) All such sums of money as may bereceived, levied, or collected under this Act byway of fees or otherwise in carrying out theobjects specified in the Act and in the dischargeof the functions of the Department shall becredited to the Consolidated Fund..

9. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words, In carrying outthe objects specified in section 7, theCommissioner of the words, The Commissioner-General shall have the power to carry out the objectsspecified in paragraphs (a) to (e) of section 7 andin doing so the Commissioner-General; and

(2)by the substitution for the words, Ayurvedichospitals of the words Ayurveda hospitals, HerbalGardens for Research and Extension Services.

10. Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the substitution for the words, ayurvedichospitals, wherever those words appear, of thewords Ayurveda hospitals, herbal cultivation,;

(2)by the substitution for the words, ayurvedichospitals wherever those words appear, of thewords Ayurveda hospitals, herbal cultivation;

Insertion of newsection 7A in theprincipal enactment

Utilization ofmoneys grantedfrom theConsolidatedFund andcrediting ofmoneys to theConsolidatedFund

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipal enactment

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20236

(3)by the substitution for the words, hospitalswherever those words appear, of the wordshospitals, herbal cultivation.

11. Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, as follows: -

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(b) the Dean of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka, the Dean of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of GampahaWickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka, the Headof the Unit of Siddha Medicine of theUniversity of Jaffna, Sri Lanka and theDean of the Faculty of Siddha Medicineof the Eastern University, Sri Lanka;;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(c) five members-

(i)two of them each representingAyurveda and Unani systems ofmedicine of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University ofColombo, Sri Lanka and elected from

among the Senior Lecturers;

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20237

(ii)one of them elected from among theSenior Lecturers of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the GampahaWickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka;

(iii)one of them elected from among theSenior Lecturers of the Unit of SiddhaMedicine of the University of Jaffna,Sri Lanka ; and

(iv)one of them elected from among theSenior Lecturers of the Faculty ofSiddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka.;

(3)by the repeal of paragraph (f) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(f)not more than twelve members appointedby the Minister of whom-

(i) three shall be so appointed from amongpersons who are not registered Ayurvedapractitioners;

(ii) three shall be so appointed from a panelof ten nominated by the All CeylonAyurvedic Practitioners Congress; and

(iii) two shall be so appointed from amongregistered Ayurveda practitioners whoare not members of the All CeylonAyurvedic Practitioners Congress; and;and

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20238

(4)by the addition, immediately after paragraph (f), thefollowing new paragraph:-

(g) one member shall be so appointed asnominated by the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance or Treasury, as the case maybe ..

12. Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words, commencing fromEach member of the Council to or reappointment: ofthe following:-

Each member of the Council, other than theCommissioner-General, the Dean of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka, the Dean of the Faculty of Indigenous Medicineof the Gampaha Wickramarachchi University of IndigenousMedicine, Sri Lanka, the Head of the Unit of SiddhaMedicine of the University of Jaffna, Sri Lanka and theDean of the Faculty of Siddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka, shall, unless he vacates office earlier,hold office for a term of three years and shall be eligiblefor re-election or reappointment, as the case may be:.

13. Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

13. (1) A member of the Council, otherthan the Commissioner-General, the Dean ofthe Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of theUniversity of Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Dean

Replacement ofsection 13 of theprincipal enactment

Vacation ofoffice bymembers ofthe Council

Amendment of

section 12 of the

principal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20239

of the Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of theGampaha Wickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka, the Head ofthe Unit of Siddha Medicine of the Universityof Jaffna, Sri Lanka and the Dean of the Facultyof Siddha Medicine of the Eastern University,Sri Lanka, shall be deemed to have vacatedoffice

(a)where he is not a public officer,on sending his resignation inwriting to the President of theCouncil;

(b)where he is not a public officer,on being absent without excusesufficient in the opinion of theCouncil, from three consecutivemeetings of the Council;

(c)on his ceasing to be a registeredAyurveda practitioner, or on thetaking effect of an order made bythe Council under this Actsuspending his registration as anAyurveda practitioner; or

(d)on his being convicted of anyoffence under the Penal Code(Chapter 19).

(2) The Commissioner-General shall bedeemed to have vacated office as a member of

the Council on his ceasing to hold office as theCommissioner-General.

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202310

(3) The Dean of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University of Colombo, SriLanka, the Dean of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the Gampaha WickramarachchiUniversity of Indigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka,the Head of the Unit of Siddha Medicine of theUniversity of Jaffna, Sri Lanka or the Dean ofthe Faculty of Siddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka, as the case may be, shallbe deemed to have vacated office as a memberof the Council on him ceasing to hold office asthe Dean or the Head of any of the aforesaidrespective Institutions as the case may be..

14. Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words, shall be six.,of the words shall be thirteen..

15. Section 18 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (d)thereof, the following new paragraph:-

(da) the registration of persons as Ayurvedamassage therapists;;

(2)in paragraph (e) thereof, by the substitution for thewords, registration; and of the words,registration;;

(3)in paragraph (f) thereof, in subparagraph (i), by thesubstitution for the words and ayurvedic nurses;and of the words and Ayurveda nurses, andAyurveda massage therapist; and.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipal enactment

Amendment ofsection 18 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202311

16. Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, as follows:-

(1)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (a),the following new paragraph:-

(aa) a representative of the Secretary to theMinistry of Finance or the Secretary to theTreasury;;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(b) the Dean of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka, the Dean of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the GampahaWickramarachchi University of IndigenousMedicine, Sri Lanka, the Head of the Unitof Siddha Medicine of the University ofJaffna, Sri Lanka and the Dean of the Facultyof Siddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka;;

(3)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (b)thereof, the following new paragraph:-

(ba) the Head of the National Institute ofTraditional Medicine;;

(4)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(c) the Head of the Ayurveda NationalHospital;;

(5)by the repeal of paragraph (d) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202312

(d) an officer of the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary or of a higher rank of the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofHigher Education appointed by the Ministeron recommendation of the Minister assignedthe subject of Higher Education;;

(6)by the repeal of paragraph (e) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(e) five members appointed by the Minister onthe recommendation of the Ministerassigned the subject of Higher Education-

(i)two of them each representingAyurveda and Unani systems ofmedicine of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka;

(ii)one of them from the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the GampahaWickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka;

(iii)one of them from the Unit of SiddhaMedicine of University of Jaffna, SriLanka; and

(iv)one of them from the Faculty of SiddhaMedicine of the Eastern University, SriLanka,

from among the lecturers of each Faculty orUnit;

(7)by the repeal of paragraph (f) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(f) five members, other than the membersappointed under paragraph (e)-

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202313

(i) two of them each representingAyurveda and Unani systems ofmedicine of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of theUniversity of Colombo, Sri Lanka;

(ii) one of them from the Faculty of

Indigenous Medicine of theGampaha WickramarachchiUniversity of Indigenous Medicine,Sri Lanka;

(iii) one of them from the Unit of SiddhaMedicine of University of Jaffna, SriLanka; and

(iv) one of them from the Faculty ofSiddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka,

and elected by the lecturers of each Faculty orthe Unit from among themselves;;

(8)by the repeal of paragraph (i), thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph:-

(i) not more than eight members appointed by theMinister from among registered Ayurvedapractitioners of whom not more than two shallbe so appointed from a panel of six nominatedby the All Ceylon Ayurvedic PractitionersCongress; and.

17. Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words from Eachmember of the Board to or reappointment: of thefollowing: -

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202314

Each member of the Board, other than theCommissioner-General, the Dean of the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka, the Dean of the Faculty of Indigenous Medicineof the Gampaha Wickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka, the Head of the Facultyof Siddha Medicine of the University of Jaffna, Sri Lanka,the Dean of the Faculty of Siddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka, the Head of the Ayurveda NationalHospital and the Head of the National Institute ofTraditional Medicine, shall, unless such member vacateshis office earlier, hold office for a term of three years andshall be eligible for re-election or reappointment, as thecase may be:.

18. Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords from A member of the Board to Hospitalof Ayurveda, of the words, A member of theBoard, other than the Commissioner-General, theDean of the Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of theUniversity of Colombo, Sri Lanka the Dean of theFaculty of Indigenous Medicine of the GampahaWickramarachchi University of IndigenousMedicine, Sri Lanka, the Head of the Unit of SiddhaMedicine of University of Jaffna, Sri Lanka, theDean of the Faculty of Siddha Medicine of theEastern University, Sri Lanka, the Head of theAyurveda National Hospital and the Head of theNational Institute of Traditional Medicine,;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(3) The Dean of the Faculty of IndigenousMedicine of the University of Colombo,Sri Lanka, the Dean of the Faculty of Indigenous

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipal enactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202315

Medicine of the Gampaha WickramarachchiUniversity of Indigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka,the Head of the Unit of Siddha Medicine of theUniversity of Jaffna, Sri Lanka or the Dean ofthe Faculty of Siddha Medicine of the EasternUniversity, Sri Lanka, shall be deemed to havevacated office as a member of the Board on hisceasing to hold the office of the Dean of theFaculty of Indigenous Medicine of theUniversity of Colombo, Sri Lanka, the Dean ofthe Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of theGampaha Wickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka, the Head ofthe Unit of Siddha Medicine of University ofJaffna, Sri Lanka or the Dean of the Faculty ofSiddha Medicine of Eastern University,Sri Lanka, as the case may be.;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (4) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(4) The Head of the Ayurveda NationalHospital shall be deemed to have vacatedoffice as a member of the Board on hisceasing to hold the office of the Head ofthe Ayurveda National Hospital. .

19. Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words, shall be six.,of the words shall be fourteen..

20. Section 30 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (a), thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following newparagraph: -

Amendment ofsection 27 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 30 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202316

(a)to determine-

(i)the qualifications required for the awardof postgraduate degrees, basic degrees,diplomas, and certificates under this Act;

(ii)the standards of the courses conferringbasic degrees, diplomas and certificates,conducted by local or foreign universitiesor degree-awarding institutions, to beconsidered for registration under the Act;

(iii)and to hold examinations for the holdersof basic degrees, diplomas and certificatesconferred by local or foreign universitiesor degree-awarding institutions, to beconsidered for registration under the Act;

(iv)the standards and period of internship ortraining required by holders of basicdegrees, diplomas and certificatesconferred by local or foreign universitiesor degree awarding institutions, to beconsidered for registration under the Act;;

(2)in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitution for thewords enable persons to obtain of the wordsenable persons to obtain postgraduate degrees orbasic degrees or;

(3)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the substitution for thewords enable persons to obtain of the wordsenable persons to obtain postgraduate degrees orbasic degrees or;

(4)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (c)thereof, of the following new paragraph:-

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202317

(ca)to make recommendations to the Minister inrespect of any fees to be prescribed, wherenecessary, for the award of postgraduatedegrees, basic degrees, diplomas, andcertificates under this Act;.

21. Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(1) There shall be a Committee which shall becalled the Ayurveda Research Committee, (hereinafterin this Part referred to as the Committee) which shallconsist of fourteen members, namely-

(a)the Commissioner-General;

(b)the Head of the Ayurveda National Hospital;

(c)the Head of the Bandaranayake MemorialAyurveda Research Institute;

(d)four Professors of traditional medicine, eachrepresenting the University of Colombo, SriLanka, the Gampaha WickramarachchiUniversity of Indigenous Medicine, theUniversity of Jaffna, and the Faculty of SiddhaMedicine of Eastern University, Sri Lanka;

(e)one member duly appointed by the NationalScience Foundation established under theScience and Technology Development Act,No. 11 of 1994;

(f)one member duly appointed by the NationalIntellectual Property Office of Sri Lankaestablished under the Intellectual PropertyAct, No. 36 of 2003;

Amendment ofsection 33 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202318

(g)one member nominated by the Secretary tothe Ministry of the Minister assigned thesubject of Science;

(h)one member appointed by the Minister fromamong persons who possess ten or more yearsof experience in the field of law;

(i)two members appointed by the Minister, fromamong the Ayurveda Practitioners registeredin the special register; and

(j)one member not below the rank of SeniorAssistant Secretary appointed by the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister to whom thesubject of Finance is assigned..

22. Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words, shall be three.,of the words shall be five..

23. Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words ayurvedic clinicaltreatment of the words ayurveda clinicaltreatment and Ayurveda Primary Health Care;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (d), the following newparagraph: -

(da) the charging of any prescribed fees inrespect of any matters referred to inparagraphs (a) to (d);;

(3)by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)thereof, of the following new subsection:-

Amendment ofsection 38 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 41of theprincipalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202319

(3) Formulating one or more sub-committees tocarry out duties and responsibilities specified in subsections (1) and (2)..

24. Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof, by the addition,immediately after paragraph (c), of the following newparagraph:-

(d)a register for the registration ofAyurveda massage therapists..

25. Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words ayurvedicpharmacist or ayurvedic nurse wherever they appear in thatsection, of the words Ayurveda pharmacist, Ayurveda nurseor Ayurveda massage therapist.

26. Section 54 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words ayurvedicpharmacist or ayurvedic nurse wherever they appear in thatsection, of the words Ayurveda pharmacist, Ayurveda nurseor Ayurveda massage therapist.

27. Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words The institute of Ayurveda of theUniversity of Ceylon; or of the words the Faculty ofIndigenous Medicine of the University of Colombo, SriLanka, the Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of the GampahaWickramarachchi University of Indigenous Medicine, SriLanka, the Unit of Siddha Medicine of the University ofJaffna, Sri Lanka, the Faculty of Siddha Medicine of theEastern University, Sri Lanka; or.

28. Section 56 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

Amendment ofsection 53 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 54 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 55 ofthe principalenactment

Replacement ofsection 56 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 51 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202320

56. No person shall be entitled to beregistered as an Ayurveda pharmacist,Ayurveda nurse or Ayurveda massage therapistunless such person-

(a) is a citizen of Sri Lanka; and

(b) satisfies the Council that such personpossesses sufficient knowledge,experience and skill in the science ofmanufacturing Ayurveda medicinesefficiently or sufficient experience inAyurveda nursing or professional skill asan Ayurveda massage therapist , as the casemay be..

29. Section 57 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) thereof-

(a)in paragraph (a), by the substitution for thewords pharmacist, ayurvedic nurse of thewords pharmacist, Ayurveda nurse,Ayurveda massage therapist,;

(b)in paragraph (b), by the substitution for thewords pharmacist, ayurvedic nurse of thewords pharmacist, Ayurveda nurse,Ayurveda massage therapist,;

(c)in paragraph (c), by the substitution for thewords any diploma or certificate of thewords any postgraduate degree or basicdegree or diploma or certificate;

Amendment ofsection 57 ofthe principalenactment

Qualificationsforregistration asAyurvedapharmacist,Ayurvedanurse orAyurvedamassagetherapist

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202321

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the

words ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurse

wherever those words appear in that subsection, of

the words Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse

or Ayurveda massage therapist; .

30. Section 58 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended by the substitution for the words ayurvedic

pharmacist or ayurvedic nurse wherever they appear in that

section, of the words Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda

nurse or Ayurveda massage therapists,.

31. Section 59 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the

words ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurse

and the words register of ayurvedic nurses,

wherever those words appear, of the words

Ayurveda pharmacist, Ayurveda nurse or

Ayurveda massage therapist and the words

register of Ayurveda nurses, the register of

Ayurveda massage therapists,, respectively;

(2)in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for the

words ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurse

and the words register of ayurvedic nurses,

wherever those words appear, of the words

Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse or

Ayurveda massage therapist and the words

register of Ayurveda nurses, the register of

Ayurveda massage therapists,, respectively; and

Amendment ofsection 58 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 59 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202322

(3)in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for thewords ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurseand the words register of ayurvedic nurses, of thewords Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse orAyurveda massage therapist and the wordsregister of Ayurveda nurses, the register ofAyurveda massage therapists,, respectively.

32. Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:-

60.(1) The fee for registration as anAyurvedic practitioner, Ayurveda pharmacistor Ayurveda nurse or Ayurveda massagetherapist, shall be such sum as may beprescribed by rules made by the Council underthis Act.

(2) The Registrar shall not register the nameof any person in the register of Ayurvedapractitioners, the register of Ayurvedapharmacists, register of Ayurveda nurses, theregister of Ayurveda massage therapists, untilthe fee for registration as an Ayurvedapractitioner, Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurvedanurse or Ayurveda massage therapist, as thecase may be, is paid by that person.

(3) The fees chargeable by the AyurvedaEducation and Hospital Board in the exercise,discharge and performance of its powers,functions, and duties under section 30 of thisAct, shall be as prescribed by regulations.

(4) The fees chargeable by the AyurvedaResearch Committee for the performance of itsduties under section 41 of the Act, shall be asprescribed by regulation..

Replacement ofsection 60 ofthe principalenactmentFees to becharged forthe purposesof section 18,in the exerciseof powersunder section30 and incarrying outduties undersection 41

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202323

33. Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words Ayurvedicpharmacist or ayurvedic nurse of the words Ayurvedapharmacist or Ayurveda nurse or Ayurveda massagetherapist;

34. Section 62 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words register ofAyurvedic nurses, and the words ayurvedic pharmacist orAyurvedic nurse of the words register of Ayurveda nurses,the register of Ayurveda massage therapists, and the words,Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse or Ayurvedamassage therapist respectively.

35. Section 63 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurseof the words Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurvedanurse or Ayurveda massage therapist;

(2) in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for thewords ayurvedic pharmacist or ayurvedic nurseand the words register of ayurvedic nurses, of thewords Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse orAyurveda massage therapist and the words,register of Ayurveda nurses, the register ofAyurveda massage therapists, respectively.

36. Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

66. For the purposes of any written law, aregistered Ayurveda pharmacist, Ayurvedanurse or Ayurveda massage therapist shall bedeemed to be a legally or duly qualifiedAyurveda pharmacist, Ayurveda nurse orAyurveda massage therapist, respectively..

Amendment ofsection 61 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 62 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 63 ofthe principalenactment

Replacement ofsection 66 ofthe principalenactmentAyurvedapharmacist,Ayurvedanurse orAyurvedamassagetherapist to betreated asduly qualified

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202324

37. Section 69 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution forthe words special register of ayurvedic practitioners, ofthe words in the Special register of Ayurveda practitioners,.

38. Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

70. (1) Every registered Ayurvedapharmacist shall be entitled to manufactureAyurveda medicines.

(2) Every registered Ayurveda nurse shallbe entitled to practise ayurveda nursing.

(3) Every registered Ayurveda massagetherapist shall be entitled to practise Ayurvedamassage techniques..

39. Section 71 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows: -

(1)in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for thewords registered ayurvedic nurse, wherever thosewords appear in that subsection, of the wordsregistered Ayurveda nurse or registered Ayurvedamassage therapist,;

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following subsection: -

(2) A person who is registered undersection 10 as the proprietor of a registeredAyurveda hospital, herbal cultivation,Ayurveda pharmacy, herbarium, Ayurvedasale centre or Ayurveda store may,notwithstanding that he is not a registered

Amendment ofsection 69 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 71 of theprincipalenactment

RegisteredAyurvedapharmacist,registeredAyurvedanurse orregisteredAyurvedamassagetherapistentitled tomanufactureor practice

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202325

Ayurveda pharmacist, use, for the purposes ofthe business of such Ayurveda hospital, herbalcultivation, pharmacy herbarium, Ayurvedasale centre or stores, any name, title, addition,or description which may be used by aregistered Ayurveda pharmacist, if-

(a)he employs a registered Ayurvedapharmacist to personally superintendand manage the cultivation,distribution, sale or manufacturing ofmedicines, drugs or poisons at suchAyurveda hospital, herbal cultivation,pharmacy, herbarium, Ayurveda salecentre or Ayurveda store, as the casemay be; and

(b)the name of the pharmacist soemployed has been notified in writingto the Council..

40. Section 72 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words ayurvedic pharmacist orayurvedic nurse wherever those words appear in that sectionof the words Ayurveda pharmacist or Ayurveda nurse orAyurveda massage therapist.

41. Section 77 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows: -

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

(1) Regulations may be made under this Actprescribing an Ayurveda Code containing allsuch provisions in respect of all such matters asthe authority empowered to make suchregulations may deem necessary to prohibit,regulate or control the manufacture, preparation,importation, exportation, purchase, storage,advertising, transportation, quality control, sale,

Amendment ofsection 72 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 77 of theprincipalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202326

supply, distribution or dispensing of any article,substance or drug for the purpose of Ayurvedamedicine and surgery. Such Code may,without prejudice to the generality of thepowers hereinbefore conferred, make provisionin respect of all or any of the followingmatters:-

(a)the declaration of any article, substanceor drug as a poison, poisonous substanceor dangerous drug, as the case may be,for that purpose;

(b)the prohibition, regulation or control of,the manufacture, preparation,importation, exportation, purchasing,storing, advertising, transportation,quality control, sale, supply, ordistribution of any Ayurveda product;

(c)the registration and maintenance of anyherbal Garden for Research andExtension;

(d)the registration of or issuance of licencesor permits for any herbal cultivation andfor any related activity, includingtransportation and storing of crop;

(e)the introduction and operation of asystem of registration, licensing orissuance of permits for the purpose ofeffecting such regulation or control,including, but not limited to, the makingof application for such registration,licensing or issuance of permits, thegrant, refusal, suspension andcancellation of such registration, licenceor permit;

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202327

(f)the precautions to be taken, and theconditions to be complied with, in suchherbal cultivation and in suchmanufacture, preparation, importation,exportation, purchase, storage,advertising, transportation, qualitycontrol, sale, supply, distribution ordispensing;

(g)the books and records to be kept andmaintained, and the returns to befurnished, by persons engaged in suchherbal cultivation and in suchmanufacture, preparation, importation,exportation, purchase, storage,advertising, transportation, qualitycontrol, sale, supply, distribution ordispensing;

(h)the inspection of the premises in whichsuch herbal cultivation is carried out andin which such manufacture, preparation,importation, exportation, purchase,storage, advertising, transportation,quality control, sale, supply, distributionor dispensing is carried on, and of therecords and books kept and maintainedfor that purpose;

(i)the charging of fees, where necessary,in respect of any matter referred to inthis section;

(j)the declaration of any medicinal plantwhich requires a licence or permit forcultivation; and

(k)any other matter incidental to orconnected with the matters aforesaid.;

(2) in subsection (2) thereof, by the substitution for thewords the Prime Minister. of the words thePresident..

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202328

42. Section 79 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words registeredayurvedic hospital, any registered ayurvedic pharmacy,,wherever those words appear in that section, of the wordsregistered Ayurveda hospital, any registered Ayurvedapharmacy, any Ayurveda drug manufactory, any herbalcultivation,.

43. Section 80 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

80. (1) Any person who

(a) resists or obstructs a personauthorized in that behalf under thisAct in the exercise by such person ofany powers conferred on him by orunder this Act;

(b) fails without reasonable cause, tocomply with the requirements of anotice issued under this Act;

(c) knowingly makes any false statementin any return or information furnishedby him under this Act; or

(d) willfully omits any material fact fromany return or information furnishedby him under this Act in respect ofwhich he is required to furnishinformation,

commits an offence under this Act and shallbe liable on conviction after summary trialbefore a Magistrate, to a fine of not exceedingfifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of

Amendment ofsection 79 ofthe principalenactment

Replacement ofsection 80 ofthe principalenactmentoffencesand penalties

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202329

either description, for a term not exceeding sixmonths or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Any person who contravenes theprovisions of this Act or any regulation madethereunder, while practicing Ayurveda under theAuthority of a licence issued under this Act,commits an offence under this Act and shall beliable on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, to a fine of not exceeding onehundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description, for a term not exceeding oneyear or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) Any person who commits an offence undersection 79 of this Act, shall be liable onconviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, to a fine not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription, for a term not exceeding one year orto both such fine and imprisonment.

(4) Any person who-

(a)carries out any activity without alicence or permit for which a licence orpermit is required under this Act; or

(b)fraudulently displays a logo or a markor a sign indicating that a premises,establishment, an article, a drug,substance or an Ayurveda product hasa valid licence issued under this Act,

commits an offence under this Act and shall beliable on conviction after summary trial beforea Magistrate, to a fine not exceeding two hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding one year orto both such fine and imprisonment.

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202330

(5) Any person who acts in contraventionof any provision of this Act, (other than theprovisions referred to in subsections (1), (2),(3) and (4) of this section) or any requirementsimposed under any such provision, or anyregulations made under the Act, shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall, onconviction after summary trial before aMagistrate, be liable

(a)where such person is not a bodycorporate, to a fine not less than rupeesfive thousand and not exceedingrupees fifty thousand or toimprisonment of either description fora term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment inthe case of a first offence, and to a finenot less than rupees ten thousand andnot exceeding rupees one hundredthousand or to an imprisonment ofeither description for a term notexceeding two years or to both suchfine and imprisonment in the case ofa subsequent offence ; and

(b)where such person is a body corporate,to a fine not less than rupees fiftythousand and not exceeding rupeesone million in the case of a firstoffence, and to a fine not less thanrupees one hundred thousand and notexceeding rupees two million in thecase of a subsequent offence..

44. Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words pharmacy ornursing, of the words ayurveda drug manufacturing,nursing or Ayurveda massage therapy,.

Amendment ofsection 83 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202331

45. Section 89 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:-

(1)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionAyurveda and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing:-

Ayurveda includes the Ayurveda, Siddha, Unaniand Desiya Chikitsa systems of medicineand surgery and any other system ofmedicine indigenous to Asian countriesand recognized as such by theGovernments of such respectivecountries;;

(2)by the insertion, immediately after the definition ofthe expression ayurveda pharmacy, the followingnew definition: -

Ayurveda Product means any Ayurveda article,substance or drug which is manufacturedor refined for sale, and includes any locallymanufactured or imported medicinalextract or fraction, a health supplement, afood supplement, a cosmeceutical, or adevice;;

(3)by the insertion, immediately after the definition ofthe expression dispensary, the following newdefinitions:-

Eastern University of Sri Lanka means theEastern University of Sri Lanka establishedunder Order made under section 21 of theUniversities Act, No.16 of 1978 andpublished in the Gazette ExtraordinaryNo. 420/25 of September 26, 1986;

Amendment ofsection 89 ofthe principalenactment

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202332

Faculty of Indigenous Medicine of the Universityof Colombo, Sri Lanka means the Facultyof Indigenous Medicine of the Universityof Colombo, Sri Lanka established byOrder made under the Universities Act,No.16 of 1978 and published in the GazetteExtraordinary No. 2319/22 of February 13,2023;

Gampaha Wickramarachchi University ofIndigenous Medicine, Sri Lanka meansthe the Gampaha WickramarachchiUniversity of Indigenous Medicine, SriLanka established by Order made underthe Universities Act, No.16 of 1978 andpublished in the Gazette Extraordinary No.2199/12 of October 28, 2020;

Herbal Cultivation means the cultivation of anymedicinal plants for Ayurveda purposesas prescribed in the Ayurveda Code andshall include crop harvest or residual ofsuch growth used for any commercialpurposes;

Herbal Gardens for Research and Extensionmeans a dedicated space devoted to growmedicinal plants for research purposes,either by the Department of Ayurveda ora person registered for such purposes underthis Act;;

(4)by the insertion, immediately after the definition ofthe expression Hospital of Indigenous Medicine,the following new definitions:-

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202333

Medicinal plant means any plant which, in oneor more of its organs, contain substancesthat can be used for thereputic purposesor which are precursors for the synthesisof useful drugs;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectof Ayurveda under Article 44 or 45 ofthe Constitution;

Primary Health Care means a whole-of-societyapproach to health that aims at ensuringthe highest possible level of health andwell-being and their equitabledistribution by focusing on people'sneeds and as early as possible along thecontinuum from health promotion anddisease prevention to treatment,rehabilitation and palliative care, and asclose as feasible to people's everydayenvironment;;

(5) by the repeal of the definition of the expressionregister of Ayurveda practitioners and thesubstitution therefor, of the following:-

register of Ayurveda practitioners means theGeneral register, or the Special registermaintained by the Ayurveda MedicalCouncil under this Act for the registrationof Ayurveda practitioners, and includesany register which is deemed to be aGeneral register of Ayurvedapractitioners or a Special register ofAyurveda practitioners under subsection(3) of section 51;;

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202334

(6)by the insertion, immediately after the definition ofthe expression registered ayurvedic practitioner, thefollowing new definitions:-

Registered Ayurveda massage therapist meansany person registered as an Ayurvedamassage therapist under this Act;

Register of Ayurveda massage therapist meansthe register maintained by the AyurvedaMedical Council for the registration ofAyurveda massage therapist under thisAct;

University of Colombo, Sri Lanka means theUniversity of Colombo, Sri Lankaestablished under section 139 of theUniversities Act, No.16 of 1978;

University of Jaffna, Sri Lanka means theUniversity of Jaffna, Sri Lanka establishedunder section 139 of the Universities Act,No.16 of 1978;.

46. For the avoidance of doubt, it is hereby declared thatthe provisions of this Act shall not affect or be deemed tohave affected any act previously done or any decisionpreviously made under the principal enactment prior to thedate of commencement of this Act.

47. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Avoidance ofdoubt

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Ayurveda (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 202335

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.