PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATION BUILDING TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 20 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 01, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

L.D.O. 9/2019

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATION BUILDING TAX ACT, NO. 9 OF 2009

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Nation Building Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 20 of 2019, and shall be deemed tohave come into operation on November 1, 2019, unlessdifferent dates of operation are specified hereunder.

2.Section 3 of the Nation Building Tax Act, No. 9 of2009 (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment)as last amended by Act, No. 20 of 2018, is hereby furtheramended in subparagraph (12) of paragraph (iv) of subsection(2), by the substitution for the words importer himself.;and, of the words and figures importer himself, prior toNovember 1, 2019 ; and.

3.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor:

8. (1) The provisions in sections 106, 107,108 and 112 of Chapter XII relating to Returnsetc, Chapter XXII relating to Assessments,Chapter XXIII relating to Appeals, ChapterXXIV relating to Finalty of Assessments andPenalty for Incorrect Returns, Chapter XXVrelating to Tax in Default and Sums AddedThereto, Chapter XXVI relating to Recoveryof Tax, Chapter XXVII relating toMiscellaneous, Chapter XXIX relating toPenalties and Offences, Section 209 of Chapter

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 3 of Act,No. 9 of 2009.

Replacement ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Certainprovisions ofthe InlandRevenue Actto apply.

2Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

XXX relating to Administration and ChapterXXXI on General matters, of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006, shall mutatis muandisapply to the furnishing of returns, assessments,appeal against assessments, finality ofassessments and penalty for incorrect returns,tax in default and sums added thereto, recoveryof tax, miscellaneous, penalties and offences,administration and general metters under thisAct, for the period prior to April 1, 2018.

(2) The provisions in Chapter IX, X, XI, XII,XIII, XV, XVI, XVII, XVIII and XIX of theInland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017 relatingto Administration, Record Keeping andInformation Collection, Tax Returns,Assessments, Objection and Appeals, Interest,recovery of Tax, Penalties, CriminalProceedings and Regulations, respectivelyshall mutatis mutandis apply to administration,record keeping and information collection, taxreturns assessements, objection and appeals,interest, recovery of tax, penalties, criminalproceedings and regulations, respectivelyunder this Act, for any period commencing onor after April 1, 2018, subject to provisions ofsubsection (3).

(3) Provisions of precceding subsections (1)and (2) shall apply subject to followingmodifications:

(a)every reference to the year of assessmentin any such provision of the InlandRevenue Act, shall be deemed to be areference to the relevant quarter inthis Act;

(b)every reference to assessable income ortaxable income in any such provision

3Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

of the Inland Revenue Act, shall bedeemed to be a reference to the liableturnover in this Act;

(c)every reference to income tax in anysuch provision of the Inland RevenueAct, shall be deemed to be a referenceto the tax charged and levied in termsof the provisions of this Act;

(d)return for any relevant quarter under thisAct shall be furnished on or before thetwentieth day of the monthcommencing immediately after theexpiry of such quater; and

(e)no assessment or additional assessmentshall be made under this Act in respectof any person

(i)who has furnished a return for therelevant quarter in the year ofassessment on or before the datereferred to in paragraph (d) of thissubsection, after the expiry ofeighteen months for any periodprior to April 1, 2018 and afterthe expiry of thirty months forany period commencing on orafter April 1, 2018 from thethirtieth day of November of theyear of assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessmentin which such relevant quarterfalls; or

(ii)who has failed to furnish a returnon or before such date as isreferred to in paragraph (d) ofthis subsection, after the expiry

4Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

of four years from the thirtiethday of November of the yearof assessment immediatelysucceeding the year of assessmentwithin which such relevantquarter falls..

4.Section 10 of the principal enactment as last amendedby Act, No. 12 of 2015 is further amended by the repeal ofthe definition of expression Inland Revenue Act andsubstitute therefor of the following new definition:

Inland Revenue Act means

(i)for any period prior to April 1, 2018, theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006; and

(ii)for any period on or after April 1, 2018,the Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017;.

5.The First Schedule to the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 20 of 2018 is hereby further amendedas follows:

(1)in PART I of that Schedule

(a) in item (XLIX) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words cigarettes identified, of thewords and figures for any periodcommencing prior to November 1, 2019,cigarettes identified;

(b) by the substitution for item (LIV) thereof,of the following item:

(LIV) importation of gem stones by aperson registered with theNational Gem and JewelleryAuthority, for the purpose of

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

5Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

re-exporting such gems uponbeing cut and polished and if thepayment for such service of cutand polish is made in foreigncurrency and remitted toSri Lanka through a bank;;

(c) in item (LV) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words the subject of Agriculture.,of the words the subject of Agriculture;;

(d) by the insertion immediately after item(LV) thereof, of the following new items:-

(LVI)palm oil manufactured locallyout of imported crude palm oilor imported palm oleinsubjected to the SpecialCommodity Levy chargedunder the Special CommodityLevy Act, No. 48 of 2007;

(LVII)importation of Lucerne (alfalfa)meal and pellets;

(LVIII)importation of yachts and othervessels for pleasure or sports,rowing boats and canvas asclassified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description andCoding Numbers 8903.91.00;and

(LIX)importation of any projectrelated article by an enterprisewhich has entered into anagreement with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka undersection 17 of the Board of

6Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978, for the use in anyproject of such enterprisehaving a capital investment ofnot less than fifty millionUnited States Dollars during theproject implementation periodand prior to the commencementof commercial operations..

(2)in PART II of that Schedule

(a) in item (vii) thereof

(i) in paragraph (c), by the substitutionfor the words a constructioncontractor or a sub-contractor, of thefollowing:

a construction contractor or asub-contractor; or;

(ii) by the insertion immediately afterparagraph (c) thereof, of thefollowing:

(d) on or after November 1,2019, of a constructioncontractor or a sub-contractor; and

(b) by the substitution for item (xii) thereof,of the following item:

(xii) services provided by a hotel, guesthouse, restaurant or other similarbusiness

(a)prior to January 1, 2011;or

7Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

(b)on or after November 1,2019, where the paymentfor such service is receivedin foreign currencythrough a bank inSri Lanka,

where such hotel, guest house,restaurant or other similar businessis registered with the CeylonTourist Board;.

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

8Nation Building Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 20 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.