PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCES(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 11 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th of July, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 6.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 28, 2017

1Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2017

2PL 0052112961 (05/2017)

[Certified on 25th of July, 2017]

L.D.O. 21/2016.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FISHERIES AND AQUATIC RESOURCESACT, NO. 2 OF 1996

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Fisheries and AquaticResources (Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2017.

2.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 28 of the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No. 2 of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) and shall have effect as section28A of that enactment:

28A. (1) (a) No person shall engage in orcause any other person to be engaged infishing operations utilizing bottom trawl nets,including nets with or without two wings orusing vertical poles at the two free ends of thenet, to be towed by motorized or mechanizedfishing boats.

(b) No person shall use, possess, import,transport, purchase or sell any bottom trawlnet, to be towed by a motorized or mechanizedfishing boat for the purpose of carrying outfishing operations in Sri Lanka Waters.

(2) No license shall be issued by theDirector-General under Part II of this Act forfishing operations carried out by bottom trawlnets to be towed by a motorized or mechanizedfishing boat in Sri Lanka Waters.

Short title.

Insertion of newsection 28A inthe principalenactment.

Prohibitionof fishingoperationsutilizingbottom trawlnets.

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20172

Amendment ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment.

(3) Any license, issued under this Act forfishing operations carried out utilizing bottomtrawl nets towed by motorized or mechanizedfishing boats in Sri Lanka Waters, shall not berenewed:

Provided that, a license already issued forthe use of bottom trawl nets and which is stillin force on the day preceding the dateof commencement of this Act, shallnotwithstanding anything to the contrary inthis Act, continue to be valid for the purposeand in respect of which the license has beenissued, for the period specified therein..

3.Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2A)thereof, of the following new subsection:

(2AA) Any person who contravenes or fails tocomply with the provisions of section 28A of thisAct shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,be liable to an imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to a fine not less than fiftythousand rupees..

4.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression Sri Lanka Waters, of the following newdefinition:

bottom trawl net means a towing net having acone shaped body and a bag or cod end(madiya) connected to the apex with orwithout two wings connected to the other endand towed by motorized or mechanizedfishing boats..

3Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2017

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Section 28A ofthis Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

5.The provisions of section 28A of this Act, shall haveeffect notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherwritten law, and accordingly, in the event of any conflict orinconsistency between the provisions of section 28A of thisAct and such other law, the provisions of section 28A of thisAct shall prevail.

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Fisheries and Aquatic Resources (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 20174

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.