PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES ACT, No. 28 OF 1996

[Certified on 24th October, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic ——
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 25, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO I.
Price : Rs. 1.35 Postage : Rs. 2.55


Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996

[Certified on 24th October 1996] -:’
L.D.— O. 3104 ="

AN Ace TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A » NATIONAL
Councit FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES, FOR, THE
PROMOTION, ADVANCEMENT AND PROTECTION OF RIGHTS OF
PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES IN SRI LANKA ; AND TO PROVIDE

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL .,

THERETO.

WHEREAS it is necessary to make legal provision to give
effect to the national policy on the rehabilitation, welfare and
rclicf of persons with disabilitics and in furtherance thereof to
makc provision for the establishment of a National Council
for persons with disabilities:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Protection of the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities Act, No. 28 of 1996, and shall come

into Operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by ©

Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter retested to as the
“appointed Pate: SOG Ros

PART I .

-STABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR PERSONS WITH:
DISABILITIES

2. (1) There shall be established a Council called the
“National Council for Persons with Disabilities” (hereinafter
referred to as the “Council’’).. - eT

(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it by subsec-
tion (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession and a
common scal and may sue.and be sued in such name.

3. The Council shall consist of the following members:—
2- D 041339 - 6.855 (96/08) _

Short title and date -
of operation. -

Establishment of
the National
Council for
Persons with
Disabilities.

_ Constitution of the

Council.


_ + .Term of office of :
’ appointed

members.

Removal and
resignation of .
appointed
members.

2 Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996

_(a) the Minister who shall be the Chairman of the
- Council ;

(b) eleven members’ appointed by the President in con-.
sultation with the Minister to represent persons
with disabilities and to represent, any bodies cor-
porate or unincorporate (hereinafter referred to as
- “voluntary organisations’) which are engaged in
"providing services to persons with disabilities
including self-help organisations of persons | with
disabilities;

(c) nine other members appointed by the President by

_ name or office in consultation with the Minister,

from among members of Parliament or Provincial
Councils or local authorities or members of bodies

of professionals or public officers.

A member appointed under paragraph (b) or (c) is herein-
after referred to as an “appointed member’.

4, Every appointed member shall, unless he vacates office
earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for a
period of three years from the date of his appoinument and.
shall unless he has been removed from office, be. ‘eligible
for re-appointment.

5. (1) The President may, in consultation with the Min-

~ ister, remove any appointed member from office without

assigning any reason therefor. -

(2) In the event of the vacation of office by death, resigria-

tion or removal of any appointed member, the President may,
in consultation with the Minister, arid having regard to the

provisions of section 3, appoint any other person to succeed
such member. Any member so appointed shall hold office for

. the unexpired term of office of the member whom he sucereds:

3) Any appointed member may at any time resign from

Office by letter to that effect addressed to the President.

_.(4) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness,

- infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for aperiod of notless than


a

Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 3 |

Act, No. 28 of 1996

three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties, it
shall be the duty of such member to inform the President in
writing of such inability. Thereupon, the President may, ‘in
consultation with the Minister, and having regard to the
provisions of section 3, appoint some other person to act in his ,
place.

6. All or any of the members of the Council may be paid
Such remuneration as the Minister may determine in consul-
(ation with the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

7. (1) The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the

- Council at which he is present. In the absence of the Chairman

from any meeting of the Council, the members present at such
mecting shall choose from among themselves another mem-
ber to preside at thal meeting.

(2) The quorum for any a: of the Council shall be
five members.

(3) The Council shall meet as often as necessary, and in
any Case at Ieast once in each month, at such time and place as
the Council may determine, and shall, subject to the other
provisions of this Act and any regulation made thereunder,
regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

(4) The Chairman may designate an officer of the Council _

appointed under section 15 of this Act to be in control of the

day to day administration of the affairs of the Council. .

. b
8. No act, decision or proceeding of the Council shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of any
vacancy in the Council or any defect in the appomtnientox any
member thereof.

9. The Council may delegate to any member of the

Council, any power, duty or function conferred or imposed on,
Or assigned to, the Council by this Act, and in the exercise,

performance or discharge of such power, duty or function

such member shall be subject to the general or special
directions of ne Council.

“

Remuneration of

members.

The Chairman and
the conduct of
business.

Acts not invali-
dated by reason of
a vacancy.

Delegation of.
powers to
members.


Secretary to
the Council.

Seal of the
Council.

Principal function
of the Council.

Other functions of
the Council.

4 Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996

10. The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister shall

“function as the Secretary to the Council.

11. (1) The scal of the Council may be determined and
devised by the Council, and may be altered in such manner as
may be determined by the Council.

(2) The seal of the Council shall be in the custody of such
person as the Council may decide from time to time.

(3) The seal of the Council shall not be affixed to any
instrument or document except with the sanction of the Coun-
cil and in the presence of the Chairman and one member of the
Council who shall sign the instrument or document in token of
their presence.

(4) The Council shall maintain a register of the instru-
ments and documents to which the scal of the Council has been
affixed.

12. The principal function of the Council shall be toensure
the promotion, advancement and protection of the rights of

persons with disabilities.

13. Without prejudice to the generality of section 12, the
other functions of the Council shall be -

(a) to advise the Government on the promotion of the
welfare of , and the protection and advancement cf
rights of, persons with disabilities ;

(b) to take all such measures as are necessary, in CONSE
tation with the relevant Ministries, Provinci2
Councils, local authorities, District and Divisions
Secretariats, public and private sectors abi
organisations, to promote the furtherance of, and
safeguarding, the interests and rights of persons

_ with disabilities ;

(c) to recommend schemes, to promote the welfare of
and for protection of, persons with disabilities;


Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 5
Act, No. 28 of 1996

(d) toinitiate andimplement schemes for, the promotion
of the welfare of, and protection of the rights of, .
persons with disabilitics;

(e) to ensure the adoption of, and compliance with, the
relevant international declarations and conven-
tions relating to persons. with disabilities, by the
. Government;

(f) to maintain accurate statistics relating to persons
with disabilities and the services available to such
persons ;

(g) to identify the principal causes of disablement and
promote effective measures for their CevEnuen
and control ;

(i) to formulate and promote measures for the rehabili-
(ation of persons with disabilities;

(1) to establish and maintain rehabilitation centres for
persons with disabilities ;

(j) toensure a better standard of living for persons with
disabilities ;

(k) to ensure that the requirements of persons with
disabilities are met adequately ;

(f) to establish and maintain institutions to accommo-
date and care for persons with disabilities and
provide educational and vocational training for
such persons ;

(m) to encourage the establishment by the State and by
private individuals, of institutions to accommo-
date persons with disabilities and the provision
of educational and vocational training to such
persons ;

(n) to guide, support, co-ordinate and monitor, the ac-
tivities of institutions established for the care of
persons with disabilities ;

(0) to encourage and provide facilities for full partici-
pation by persons with disabilities in all activities;


6 Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996

(p) to introduce programmes to make the physical envi-
- ronment accessible to persons with disabilitics and
implement schemes to provide acccss to informa-
(ion and communication by persons with disabili-
lies ; oo
-(q) to monitor and co-ordinate the programmes and
schemes formulated, initiated and implemented by
the Government and by voluntary organisations
and bodies, for the upliftment of persons with
disabliliuies and to provide grants for such purposes,
and to make necessary recommendations ; .

(r) tomake the public aware of the conditions and needs
of persons with disabilities through publications
and other programmes ;

(s) toassist, by way of grants or otherwise, organisations
engaged in providing services to persons with
disabilities ;

_(t) toassist wherever possible, persons with disablilities
to be gainfully employed ;

(u) to encourage the study of, and research on, waalietie
to improve the quality of life of persons with
disablilities and to PrOmore their participation in all

" activities ;

(v) todoall such other acts or things as may be necessary
for the discharge of all or any of the above func-

~ lions.

Powers of the 14. The Council may exercise all or any of the following
Council. _ powers :—

(a) acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage.
pledge or sell or otherwise dispose of, any movable
or immovable property;

(b) to establish a National Secretariat for Persons with
Disabilities to assist the Council in the discharge of
its functions;

(c) employ such officers and servants as may be neces-
sary for the purpose of discharging the functions of
~ the Council;

(d) enter into and perform directly or dedaak any officer
or agent authorized in that behalf, all such contracts


Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ony
Act, No. 28 of 1996

as may be.necessary for the discharge of the

functions and the exercise of the powets of the ©

Council;

(e) open and maintain current, uns or deposit ac-.

counts in any bank or banks;

(f) borrow such sums of money as may be necessary for

the purpose of discharging its functions;
(g) accept and receive, grants, donations and bequests

both movable and immovable, from sources in Sri -
Lanka and abroad and apply themi for the cache

of its functions;

(h) make rules in respect of the cnianagenient of the
affairs of the Council;

(i) generally, to do all such other things as are necessary

to facilitate the proper CSCnaTBE of the functions -

of the Council.
 PARTII
STAFF OF THE COUNCIL

15. (1) The Council may appoint such officers and

servants as the Council may deem necessary for the properand —

efficient discharge of its functions.

(2) The Council shall in making any appointments under _

this section have regard to the desirability of appointing
persons with disablities to the staff of the Council.

(3) Subject to the other provisions of this Act, the Council
may—

officer or servant of the Council;

(b) fix the wages or salaries or other remuneration of
such officers and servants;

(c) determine the terms and conditions of service of such
officers and servants; and

(d) establish and regulate a provident fund aiid any other
- welfare scheme for the benefit of the officers and
servants of the Council and may make contribu-

tions to any such fund or schéme.

(a) exercise disciplinary control over, or dismiss, any —

Staff of the
Council.


Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Council.

The Fund of the
Council. °

8 — Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996
16. (1) At the request of the Council, any officer in the

. public service may, with the conscnt of that officer and the °

Secretary to the Ministry under which that officer is employed
and the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of
the subject of Public Administration be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Council for such period as may
be determined by the Council with like consent, or with like
consent be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily

- appointed to the staff of the Council. the provisions of subsce-

tion (2) of section 14 of the National Transport Commision

_ Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in

relation to, such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions of subsec-
tion (3) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission
Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and
in relation to, such officer.

(4) Where the Council employs any person who has entered
into any contract with the Government by which he has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period of
service to the Council by that person shall be regarded as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging his
obligations under such contract.

PART III

FINANCE

~

17. (1) There shall be established a Fund to.be called the
National Fund for Persons with Disabilities iheremattenin re-
ferred to as the “Fund”).

2) There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted from time to
_ timse by Parliament for the use of the Council;

iv

wh) oH gach sums of money as may be received by the
(te see by way of aid, grants, donations Or

 hegnsere: from spy source whatsoever, whether in
Sri Lanka or ehroad;


Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities’ 9
Act, No. 28 of 1996

_.(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
, Council by way of proceeds from the sale of any
movable or immovable property of the Council.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund —.

(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Council, in the exer-

cise, performance and discharge of its powers,

duties and functions under this Act;
(b) all such sums of money as are authorised by the

Council to make any exgratia payment to any

individual or organisation in recognition of any
exceptional or outstanding contribution made by
such individual or organisation towards the
upliftment or improvement of the status of persons
with disabilities;

(c) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of such Fund, by or under this Act.

18. (1) The Council shall cause proper accounts to be kept

of the income and expenditure, assests and liabilities and all

other transactions of the Council.

gear:
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution shall
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Counce

19. Any sum of money belongirg to the Council may be
invested by the Council in such manner as the Council may
determine. :

PART IV
REGISTRATION

20. (1) No voluntary organisation shall engage in provid-
ing services or assistance in any form or manner to persons
with disabilities either directly or through any institution or
‘other body or organisation, unless such voluntaly organisa-
tion is registered under this Act.

(2) The financial year of the Couneil shall be the calendar

Audit and

accounts.
'

Investment of
moneys of the
Council. . »

Registration with
the Council.


Application for
registration.

Grant of
ceruficate.

Provisions for the
protection and
advancement of
persons with
disabilities.

Remedy for the
contravention of

the provisions of ,

section 23.

10 Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
Act, No. 28 of 1996

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), any
voluntary organisation which, on the day preceding the
appointed date, was engaged in the provision of such services
or assistance, shall register such organisation within three
months of the appointed date.

21. Every application for registration under this Act shall -
be made to the Secretary of the Council in the prescribed form
and in the prescribed manner.

22. On receipt of an application made under section 21,
the Council shall, having regard to the services and assistance
provided by such voluntary organisation, grant registration to
such organisation and issue a certificate to that effect.

PART V

PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES

23. (1) No person with a disability shall be discriminated
against on the ground of such disability in recruitment for any
employment or office or tadmission to any educational institu-
tion.

(2) No person with a disability shall, on the ground of such
disability, be subject to any liability, restriction or condition
with regard to access to, or use of, any building or place which
any other member of the public has access to or is entitled to
use, whether on the payment of any fee or not.

24. (1) Where there has been a contravention of the provi-
sions of section 23; any person affected by such contravention
or the Council on behalf of such person may apply to the High
Court established under Article 154P of the Constitution for
the Province in which the person affected by such contraven-
tion resides, for relief or redress.

(2) Every such application shall be made by petition in -.
writing addressed to such High Court and shall be heard and
determined in accordance with the procedure laid down by
rules made by the Supreme Court under Article 136 of the
Constitution. i


Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 11
Act, No. 28 of 1996

(3) The High Court shall have power to grant such relief
or make such directions as it may deem just and equitable in
the circumstances in respect of any application referred to in
subsection (1). .

PART VI
MISCELLANEOUS

25. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are required or authorized by iis Actto
be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be pub-
lished in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the date
of publication or on such later date as may be specified
therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall as soonas -

convenientafter its publication in the Gazette, be brought before
Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is not so
approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of
disapproval but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.

(4) The notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

26. (1) The Council may make such rules as it may
consider necessary in relation to any matter affecting or.

connected with, or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and
_ performance of its powers, functions and duties.

(2) Every rule made by the Council shall be approved
by the Minister and notification oF such approval shall be ~

published in the Gazette.

Regulations.

Power of Council
to make rules.


Officers and
servants of the
Council deemed
to be public
servants within:
the meaning of
the Penal Code.

Council deemed
to be a scheduled
insutution within
the meaning of
the Bribery Act.

Protection of
members and
officers of the
Council for

action ake
under this Act or
on the direction
of the Council.

No writ to issue
against person or
property of a
member.

Returns.

12. Protection of the Rights of Persons with pecans
Act, No. 28 of 1996

27. All officers and servants of the Council shall be
deemed to be public servants within (he meaning and lor ihe
purposes of the Penal Code.

28. The Council shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

29. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against the Council
or any member of the Council or any officer or servant thereof,

_ for any act which in good faith is done by him under this Act
"or on the direction of the Council.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Council in any suil or
prosecution brought by or against, the Council before any
court shall be paid by the Council, and any costs paid to, or

recovered by, the Council in any such suit or prosecution shall

be credited to the Consolidated Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such personas is referred
to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court, in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on the direction
of the Council, shall, if the court holds that the act was done
in good faith, be paid by the Council, unless such expense is
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

30. No writ against person or property shall be issued
against amember of the Council in any action brought agent
the Council.

31. The Council may for the purpose of discHargibg its

functions under this Act, require any person to furnish to

the Council, such returns and information in respect of
such matters and in such form as may be determined by the
Council.


Protection of the Rights. of Persons with Disabilities 13
Act, No. 28 of 1996 |

32. The Council may, where it considers it necessary for
(he purpose of discharging the functions of the Council,
authorize in writing any officer to enter and inspect at all
reasonable hours of the day any premises of a voluntary
organisation which is engaged in providing services or assist-

ance to persons with disabilities. An officer so authorized is

hereinafter referred to as an “authorized officer’.

33. Any authorized officer may-

«

(a) enter and inspect the premises of any voluntary
organisation engaged in providing services or as-
' sistance to persons with disabilities ;

(b) enter and inspect such place where he has reason to
belicve that a voluntary organisation is engaged in
providing services or assistance to persons with
disabilities without being registered under this
Act;

(c) examine any books, registers or records maintained
by such organisation under this Act, and make
extracts or copies therefrom ;

(d) interrogate any person in any such premises for the

purpose of ascertaining whether the provisions of

this Act are being complied with.
34. Any person who—
(a) fails to furnish any retum or information in compli-

ance with any requirement mapeses on him under
this Act ;

(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any return
or information furnished by him ;

(c) willfully omits any matter in any return or informa- .

(ion furnished by him ;

(d) resists or obstructs any authorized officer in the
exercise by such person of any powers conferred
on him by or under section 33 of this Act;

(é€) contravenes the provisions of this Act or any regula-.

tion or rule made thereunder,

Power of Cowhcil
to authorize any .
officer to enter
and inspect
premises.

Powers of
inspection and
search.

Offences.


Offences by

bodies of persons.

Sinhala text to
prevail i in case of
mconsistency.

Interpretation.

14 Protection of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
. Act, No. 28 of 1996

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on

_ conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to.

a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment

for a term not exceeding one year or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

35. Inthe case of any offence under this Act committed by
a body of persons, then—

(a) where such body of persons is a body corporate,
every director, secretary and officer of that body

corporate shall each be creme to be guilty of that
offence ;

(b) where that body of persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm shall be deemed to be guilty of that
offence :

-' Provided that, no such person shall be deemed to be guilty
of an offence under this Act, if he proves that the offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he exercised all
diligence to prevent the commission of the offence.

36. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

37. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Jocal authority “ means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council, a Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any
written law to exercise, perform and discharge,

' powers, duties and functions corresponding to or
similar to the powers, duties and functions, exercised,

- performed and discharged by any such Council or
Sabha ;

“person with disability” means any person who, as a result
of any deficiency in his physical or mental capabili-
ties, whether congenital or not, is unable by himself
to ensure for himself, wholly or partly, the necessi-

ties of life ;

“prescribed” means prescribed by regulations made under
-this Act ;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council estab-
lished under Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution.
