no DP

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

REGULATION OF PRIVATE SECURITY
AGENCIES ACT, No. 45 OF 1998

[Certified on 19th August, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of August 21, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SR! LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO j

Price: Rs. 6.75 Postage :. Rs. 2.50


Regulation of Private Security Agencies
Act No, 45 of 1998

{Certified on 19th August, 1998]
L.D.—O. 9/96.

AN ACT TO REGULATE AND CONTROL THE CARRYING ON OF THE
BUSINESS OF PRIVATE SECURITY AGENCIES ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Regulation of Private
Security Agencies Act, No. 45 of 1998, and shall come into
operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Order
published in the Gazette, (hereinafter referred to as the
“appointed date”).

2. (1) From and after the appointed date no person shall
carry on the business of a Private Security Agency except
under the authority of, and otherwise than in accordance with
the terms and conditions of, a licence issued in that behalf
under the provisions of this Act:

Provided that any person who prior to the appointed date
was carrying on the business of a Private Security Agency
may continue to do so for a period of six months from such
date, but shall within such period apply for registration, and
obtain a licence under the provisions of this Act.

3. (1) There shall be appointed, by name or by office, for
the purposes of this Act—

(a) a Competent Authority >and

(b) such number of officers and servants as may be
necessary to assist the Competent Authority in the
implementation of the provisions of this Act.

(2) The Competent Authority may where he considers it
necessary for the efficient implementation of the provisions
of this Act, delegate all or any of the powers conferred on
him by this Act, to the District Secretary appointed for a

2——-D 043248—8,550 (97/03)

Short title and
date of operation.

Registration of
persons carrying
on business of
Private Security
Agencies.

Appointment of
Competent
Authority.


Application for
registration of
persons carrying
on business of
Private Security
Agencies.

issue of licences.

2 Regulation of Private Security Agencies
Act No. 45 of 1998

district, so however, that the Competent Authority shall
be responsible for any act or thing done, or omitted to be
done, by such District Secretary in the exercise of the powers
delegated to him under this section.

4. (1) Every application for registration under this Act
shall be made to the Competent Authority in the prescribed
form, by a person carrying on, or proposing to carry on the
business of a Private Security Agency and shall be
accompanied by a declaration by the applicant that the
particulars contained in the application are to the knowledge
and belief of the applicant, true and accurate.

(2) Where an application for registration is made to the
Competent Authority under subsection (1) he may call for
such information or documents from the applicant which he
considers necessary for the purpose of considering such
application.

(3) The Competent Authority may, after considering the
application and any information or document, furmshed to
him under subsection (2) register the applicant, if he is satisfied
that the applicant has the necessary training and facilities to
carry on the business of a Private Security Agency, that the
registration of the applicant will not be prejudicial to national
security, and that the applicant or person managing the affairs
of the applicant has not been convicted of an offence involving
moral turpitude.

5. (1) Where a person has been registered under the
provisions of this Act, the Competent Authority shall issue,
in the prescribed form and on payment of a-prescribed fee, a
licence to such person authorising him to carry on the business
of a Private Security Agency. Every such licence shall be valid
for a period of two years.

(2) A licence issued under this section shall be subject to
such terms and conditions (including conditions relating to
termination of employment, hours of work and other
conditions of employment of personnel employed by a holder
of licence) as may be prescribed.


Regulation of Private Security Agencies 3
Act No. 45 of 1998

(3) No licence issued under this Act shall be transferable
to any other person and accordingly, any such transfer shall
be null and void. |

(4) Every licence issued under this section shall at all |

times be exhibited in the principal office or place of business

of the person authorized by such licence to carry on the -

business of a Private Security Agency.

6. The Competent Authority shall keep and maintain in
the prescribed form a register of every person registered under
this Act.

7. (1) The holder of a licence issued under this Act
authorizing him to carry on business of a Private Security
Agency shal] at all times conduct his business in such a manner
as will safeguard the person and property of the persons who
avail themselves of the services provided by such holder.

(2) The holder of a licence issued under this Act shall
maintain such records and furnish such returns to the
Competent Authority as may be perscribed.

8. (1) Where any person registered under this Act ceases
to carry on the business of a Private Security Agency, he shall
forthwith notify the Competent Authority of such cessation.

(2) On receipt of notice of cessation under subsection (1),
the Competent Authority shall remove the name of such person
from the register maintained by him under section 6 and shall
cancel the licence issued to such person authorizing him to
carry on the business of a Private Security Agency.

(3) Where the Competent Authority has reason to believe
that any person registered under this Act is not carrying on
business, of a Private Security Agency, the Competent
Authority may send to such person a notice by registered post,
requiring such person to furnish proof within three weeks
from the date of such notice that he has not ceased te carry
on business of a Private Security Agency. Where a person to
whom a notice has been sent under this section fails to submit

Register to be
maintained by
Competent
Authority.

Manner of
conduct of
business by
person licensed
under this Act.

)
Duty of person
registered under
this Act to inform
Competent

+ Authority of

cessation of
business.


Any change in
particulars in the
application for
registration to be
notified to
Competent
Authority.

Renewal of
licence.

Cancellation of
licence.

4 Regulation of Private Security Agencies
Act No. 45 of 1998

the proof required by the notice within such period specified
in the notice, the Competent Authority shall remove the name
of such person from the register maintained by him under
section 6, and shall cancel the licence issued to such person
authorizing him to carry on business of a Private Security
Agency.

~ (4) The Competent Authority shall inform in writing, the
person whose name is removed from the register, of the fact
of such removal and cancellation of the licence, in terms of
subsection (3).

9. Every holder of a licence issued under this Act shall,
within thirty days of any change in the particulars contained
in his application for registration under this Act, notify the
Competent Authority in writing, of such change.

10. A licence isssued or renewed under this Act, may be
renewed by the Competent Authority for a period of two
years, on application made to him in that behalf in the
prescribed form, within a period of three calendar months
prior to the expiry of the licence in force.

11. The Competent Authority may cancel or refuse to
renew alicence issued or renewed under this Act, if he is
satisfied, after affording the holder an opportunity of being
heard, that the holder of the licence—

(i) has contravened any provision of this Act or of any
regulation made thereunder or any term or
condition to which such licence is subject ;

(ii) has conducted his business in such a manner as is
detrimental to the safety of the person or property
of the persons who have availed themselves of
the services provided by him.


. Regulation of Private Security Agencies 5
Act No. 45 of 1998

12. (1) Any person who is aggreived by the refusal of
the Competent Authority to register such person under section
4, or by the cancellation, or refusal to renew, a licence, issued
or renewed under this Act may, within thirty days after the
receipt of the decision, refusing to register or cancelling or
refusing to renew, a licence, as the case may be, appeal, in
writing, against such decision to the Secretary of the Ministry.

(2) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Secretary
to the Ministry on an appeal made to him under subsection
(1), may appeal in writing, against such decision to the
Minister, whose decision shall be final. Both such appeals
shall be disposed of within a period of one month.

13. The Minister may from time to time issue in writing
general or special directions to the Competent Authority for
the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act and
the Competent Authority shall give effect to such directions.

14. The Competent Authority or any person authorised in
writing by the Competent Authority may enter at any time,
any premises on which a person registered under this Act is
carrying on the business of a Private Security Agency or any
premises in respect of which such person is providing any
services which he is authorised to provide by a licence issued
under this Act, for the purposes of ascertaining whether the
Provisions of this Act or the terms and conditions of such
licence are being complied with. ,

15. Any person who carries on the business of a private
security agency without being licensed under this Act, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding seven years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

Appeals against
refusal to register,
cancellation

&e.

Directions.

Powers of entry.

Carrying on
business of a
Private Security
Agency without
licence, an
offence.


Miscellaneous
offences,

Offences by
bodies of persons.

6 Regulation of Private Security Agencies
Act No. 45 of 1998

16. Every person, who—

(a) contravenes any provision of this Act or any
regulation made thereunder ,

(b) makes any statement, in an application or declaration
made by him under section 4, or in any record
maintained, by him or in any return furnished under
section 7, knowing such statement to be false in any
material particulars ;

(c) resists or obstructs the Competent Authority or any
person authorised in writing by the Competent
Authority, in the exercise, by such Competent
Authority, or person of the powers conferred on him
by section 14 ; or

(d) influences or attempts to influence the Competent
Authority or any person authorised in writing by the
Competent Authority in the exercise, by such
Competent Authority or person, of the powers
conferred on him by section 14,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to a fine not exceeding five thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description to a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

17. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then —

(a) if that body is a body corporate, evey director of the
body corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of
an offence ; and

(b) if that body is a firm, every partner of that firm shall
be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Provided, however, that no such director or partner shall
be deemed to be guilty of an offence under this Act, if he
proves that such offence was committed without his
knowledge or that he exercised all due dilligence to prevent
the commission of that offence.


Regulation of Private Security Agencies 7
Act No. 45 of 1998

18. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are required or authorized to be made
under this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),
the Minister may make regulations for, or in respect of, any
or all of the following matters :—

(a) the procedure for selection of personnel by registered
Private Security Agencies, including the security
clearance to be obtained in respect, of such
personnel ;

(b) the initial training and in-service training to be
provided for such personnel ;

(c) the uniforms to be wort by such personnel ;

({d) the level of competence in the use of firearms, to be

possessed by such personnel. .

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be

published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the

date of publication or on such later date as may be specified
therein.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister, shall-as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Every regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of disapprova! but without prejudice to anything previously
done thereunder.

(5) The Notification of the date on which any regulation
is deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

19. It is hereby declared for the avoidance of doubt that
the provisions of this Act shall not apply in relation to the
State.

Regulations.

For the
avoidance of
doubt


8 Regulation of Private Security Agencies
Act No. 45 of 1998

Sinhala text to 20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

prevail in case of and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency.

Interpretation. 21. In this Act unless the context otherwise requirtes —

“ business of a Private Security Agency ” means the
business of providing for payment, services for the
* protection of persons including persons employed
in the public sector, or of property (including .
property owned by the State) ; ,

“ Competent Authority ” means the person appointed
under section 3 to be the Competent Authority for
the purposes of this Act.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT Puatications Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roab, Cotomao 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

—_<———

a fe
