PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCEACT, No. 11 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs.Postage : Rs.

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 31, 2006

1Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

Short title.

[Certified on 31st March, 2006]

L.D. O. 3/2006.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A MOTOR VEHICLECONCESSIONARY LEVY AND A TELEDRAMA, FILM AND COMMERCIALLEVY ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE AMENDMENT OF CERTAIN LEVIES AND

CHARGES IMPOSED BY THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2002, THEFINANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003 AND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF2004; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 11 of2006.

PART I

MOTOR VEHICLE CONCESSIONARY LEVY

2.(1) From and after the coming into operation of thisAct, there shall be charged and levied a levy to be called andknown as the Motor Vehicle Concessionary Levy (hereinafterreferred to as the levy) -

(a)from every primary holder of a Sri Lanka NationBuilding Bond (SLNBB) who imports a motorvehicle who shall be required to pay at the time ofsuch importation a levy at such rate as may bedetermined by the Minister by Order on the cost,insurance and freight value of such vehicle, in lieuof any tax which he is liable to pay in terms of theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235), the Excise(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 and theValue Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002, on arecommendation being made to that effect by the

Granting ofconcessionarylevies to certaincategories ofpersons.

2Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

Superintendent of Public Debt of the Central Bankof Sri Lanka, subject however to the followingconditions:-

(i)the aggregate investment in Sri Lanka NationBuilding Bonds (SLNBB) shall be of suchamount, in United States Dollars or itsequivalent in any other foreign currency, asmay be determined by the Minister in theaforesaid Order, as is acceptable for thepurchase of the aforesaid Bonds ;

(ii)the cost, insurance and freight value of themotor vehicle should not exceed suchpercentage as may be determined by theMinister in the aforesaid Order, of the value ofthe Sri Lanka Nation Building Bonds(SLNBB) ;

(b)from every individual who, commencing from theyear of assessment commencing on April 1, 2000has continued to pay in respect of each year ofassessment within the period of five yearsimmediately succeeding that year of assessment,income tax in terms of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006 of an amount not less than rupeestwo hundred and fifty thousand (250,000/-), andcertified as such by the Commissioner General ofInland Revenue, imports a motor vehicle, shall berequired to pay at the time of such importation alevy in lieu of any tax or fiscal levy which suchindividual is liable to pay in terms of the CustomsOrdinance (Chapter 235), the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 and the Value AddedTax Act, No. 14 of 2002, calculated at such rate asmay be determined by the Minister, on theaggregate of such taxes and levies.

3Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

Director General ofCustoms tocollect levy.

(2) Every Order made by the Minister underparagraphs (a) and (b) above shall come into force from thedate on which the Minister has affixed his signature on suchOrder.

3.Upon the required certification being made in respectof the persons referred to in paragraphs (a) and (b) of section2 by the Superintendent of Public Debt of the Central Bankof Sri Lanka and the Commissioner General of InlandRevenue as the case may be, it shall be the duty of the Director General of Customs to collect the levy payable by suchpersons at the time of importation and remit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

4.The Secretary to the Treasury may from time to timeissue such general or special directions as may be necessaryfor the implementation of the levy in terms of this Part of theAct.

5.Where a levy of such amount as is specified by Orderunder section 2 has been collected by the Director-Generalof Customs in terms of this Part of this Act during the periodcommencing on March 1, 2006, and ending on the date ofcommencement of this Act, from any person referred to inparagraphs (a) or (b) of section 2, who so imports a motorvehicle, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been and to be, validly made, and the Director Generalof Customs is hereby indemnified against all action civil orcriminal, in respect of such collection.

PART II

IMPOSITION OF A LEVY ON TELE-DRAMAS FILMS AND TELEVISIONCOMMERCIALS

6.(1) With a view to improving and regulating thequality and standard of tele dramas, films and commercialsproduced in Sri Lanka and thereby ensuring the propagationof Sri Lankan values through such tele dramas, films and

Directions tobe issued.

Indemnity

Levy on teledramas, filmsand commercialsimported into SriLanka to betelecast.

4Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

commercials, there shall be charged and levied, from everyinstitution licensed under the Sri Lanka RupavahiniCorporation Act, No. 6 of 1982, or such other licensingauthority as may be identified from time to time, a Levy to becalled the Teledrama, Film and Commercials Levy (hereafterin this Part referred to as the Levy), on every tele drama,film or commercial, made and or filmed outside Sri Lankaand bought into or imported into Sri Lanka for the purpose ofbeing telecast, at such rate in relation to the duration of suchtele drama, film or commercial, as shall be specified by theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance in consultationwith the Minister to whom the subject of issuing of licencesto television stations is assigned :

Provided however the above levy shall not be chargeablein respect of

(a)any documentary which is telecast in Sri Lanka,irrespective of whether such documentary was madeoutside Sri Lanka;

(b)any film or tele-drama which,

(i)seeks to impart educational values; or

(ii)is produced solely for the purposes ofproviding entertainment for children.

(c)any other category of tele dramas, films orcommercials which may be prescribed by regulations.

(2) The manner and mode of payment, the time of paymentand the procedure for the collection of the same and suchother terms and condition which may be necessary in theimplementation of the provisions of this Act shall beprescribed by regulations made in that behalf.

(3) Every Order made under subsection (1) above shallcome into force from the date on which the Minister hasaffixed his signature on such Order.

5Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

7.(1) Any person who defaults in the payment of thelevy in the manner and within the period prescribed byregulations, shall be deemed to be a defaulter.

(2) Every defaulter shall be liable to pay to the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister to whom the issuing of licensesto television stations is assigned, in addition to the amountof the levy in default a surcharge calculated in the followingmanner:-

(a)ten percentum of the amount of such levy as is indefault for the subsequent period of one month orpart thereof, calculated from the date on which thelevy was payable; and

(b)two per centum of the amount of such levy as is indefault for each subsequent period of one month orpart thereof, calculated from the date on which thepayment specified in paragraph (a) was due.

(3) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned, shalltake action to recover the levy or such part of the levy whichis in default for a period of more than three months and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as isspecified hereafter.

(4) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned, shallcause to be issued on the defaulter, three weeks prior to thetaking of any steps for the recovery of the levy in defaultalong with the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, aNotice informing the defaulter of the intention to instituteproceedings for the recovery of the amount of the levy indefault and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon interms of the provisions of this section.

How levy indefault is to bepaid.

6Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

(5) Where the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister towhom the issuing of licenses to television stations is assigned,issues Notice on the defaulter in terms of subsection (4) butthe amount of the levy in default and the amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though theperiod of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,the Secretary shall issue to the Magistrate having jurisdictionover the division in which the defaulter resides or is carryingon business, a Certificate containing the name and address ofthe defaulter and the total sum in default along with astatement to the effect that the person so named has defaultedin making the payment as required by this section. Where thedefaulter is a body corporate, the Certificate shall containthe name of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and ofevery Director or principal officer of such body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for recovery of the amount of the Levy or suchpart of the Levy which is in default and the surcharge accruedthereon. Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate tobe insufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make Order forthe recovery of the amount of the Levy in default and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulteras if they were fines imposed by the Magistrate. The moneyso recovered shall be remitted to the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister to whom the issuing of licenses to televisionstations is assigned, who shall remit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

8. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication, or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

Regulations.

7Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for approval. Every regulation,which is not so approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

9. For the purposes of this Part

film means any audio visual presentation of a movingimage produced on any form or format whatsoever,and which is intended primarily to be exhibited byproprietors on a screen in a cinema ;

tele drama means a drama telecast over the television.

PART III

AMENDMENT OF FINANCE ACT, NO. 5 OF 2005

10.The Finance Act No. 5 of 2005 (In this Part referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended in section2 of Part 1 of that Act, (Imposition of Social ResponsibilityLevy) as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the words be imposed witheffect from the year commencing on January 1, 2005and for every year thereafter, at the rate of 0.25percentum on all taxes and levies chargeable in termsof the provisions of of the words,

be imposed

(a)for the period commencing on January 1, 2005and ending on December 31, 2005, at the rateof 0.25 percentum;

Interpretation forthis Part.

Amendment ofsection 2 of PartI of the FinanceAct No.5 of2005.

8Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

(b)for the period commencing January 1, 2006at the rate of 1 percentum,

on all taxes and levies chargeable in terms of theprovisions of .

(2)by the addition immediately after the proviso tothat section of the following :

Provided further that the Social ResponsibilityLevy chargeable under the provisions of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 in terms of theprovisions of this Part of this Act, on income taxshall

(a) in respect of the period commencing onJanuary 1, 2006 and ending on March 31,2006 be calculated at the rate of 0.25percentum ; and

(b) in respect of the period commencing on April1, 2006 be calculated at the rate of 1percentum.

11.The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemedto have come into effect on January 1, 2006.

12.Where any amount has been collected by the relevantauthorities administering the enactments specified in the FirstSchedule to the principle enactment, as Social ResponsibilityLevy in terms of this Part of the Act during the periodcommencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the date ofcommencement of this Act, the amount so collected as SocialResponsibility Levy shall be deemed to have been and tobe, validly made, and the respective relevant authoritiescollecting the same, are hereby indemnified against all actionscivil or criminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaidlevy.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Indemnity.

9Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

PART IV

AMENDMENT OF FINANCE ACT, NO. 25 OF 2003

13.Part II (Tourism Development Levy) of the FinanceAct, No. 25 of 2003 as amended by Act, No. 11 of 2004 ishereby further amended in section 11 thereof, by thesubstitution for the proviso to such section of thefollowing :

Provided however such levy shall not be chargedon the commission carried on the sale of airline ticketsfrom Travel Agents including General Sales Agentslicensed under the Tourism Development Act, No. 14 of1968..

PART V

AMENDMENT OF FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2002

14.Part I (Port and Airport Development Levy) of theFinance Act No.11 of 2002 as last amended by Act, No. 6 of2005, is hereby further amended in section 2 thereof, asfollows :

(1)by the substitution for the first proviso to thatsection, of the following :

Provided that, in respect of the cost, insuranceand freight value of any article referred to above,there shall be charged and levied

(a) in respect of the period commencing onNovember 19, 2004 and ending on December31, 2005, a levy at the rate of 1.5 percentum;and

(b) in respect of the period commencing onJanuary 1, 2006 a levy at the rate of 2.5percentum ; and

Amendment ofsection 2 of Part1 of the FinanceAct No.11 of2002.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theFinance Act, No.25 of 2003.

10Finance Act, No. 11 of 2006

(2)by the insertion immediately after the secondproviso to that section of the following :

Provided further, that with effect from January 1,2006 no levy shall be charged in respect of anyarticle imported into Sri Lanka for the purpose ofprocessing and re-export or to be used for themanufacture of goods for export..

15.The provisions of this Part shall be deemed to havecome into effect on January 1, 2006.

16.Where an amount equal to 2.5 per centum on thecost, insurance and freight value of an article has beencollected by the Director-General of Customs as Port andAirport Levy in terms of this Part of this Act during the periodcommencing on January 1, 2006 and ending on the date ofcommencement of this Act, from any person importing, anarticle as is referred to in Part I of the Finance Act No.11 of2002, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been and to be, validly made, and the Director Generalof Customs is hereby indemnified against all action civil orcriminal, in respect of such collection.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Indemnity

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.