PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ath Session 1968-69

parr se
te So
vy fan ies BONY
ee 2! e™
o . * 1 -
4 d ee
cf %
1 fac c
tf 3 2 $C ae i 7 5 G
uf é is ‘
BY uy | VO” HS le Me
aN £
\-2 \ i &
wy 4
AN '
=D. # ae 4 * YA
Gira 62% EY
“Se 13° 4 e
ane

Industrial Disputes
(Amendment) Act, No. 39
of 1968

Date of Assent: October 12, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annua’ Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40

(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT

PuBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, COLOMBO 1, before 20th

December each year in respect of the year following. Late

subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price : 30 cents Postage : 10 cents


Industrial Disputes (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 1968

L. D.—O. 22/67.
An ACT TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL DispuTES ACT.
[Date of Assent: October 12, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

14. This Act may be cited as the Industrial
Disputes (Amendment) Act, No. 39 of 1968.

2. The Industrial Disputes Act (as last amended
by Act No. 27 of 1966), hereafter referred to as the
** principal Act ’’,—

(a) is hereby amended in the manner and to the
extent specified in Part I of the Schedule
to this Act, and such amendments shall be
deemed, for all purposes, to have come into
operation on October 11, 1966; and

(b) is hereby further amended in the manner and
to the extent specified in Part II of that
Schedule, and such further amendments
shall be deemed, for all purposes, to have
come into operation on December 30, 1957.

SCHEDULE
Part I.
Amendments to the principal Act.

1. The heading of Part II of the principal Act is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the expression ‘‘ By Arbitration
of By Adjudication Or’’, of the expression ‘‘ By Arbitration

ir oe ;

2. Section 4a of the principal Act is hereby repealed.

8. Part III of the principal Act is hereby amended by the
omission of the sub-heading ‘‘ (D) Settlement By Adjudication ”’
appearing immediately after section 21 of that Act.

4. Sections 21a to 21p (both sections inclusive) of the
principal Act are hereby repealed.

5. Section 81n of the principal Act is hereby amended as
follows :—

(a) in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitution, for
the expression ‘‘ court for settlement, or’. of the
expression ‘‘ court for settlement,’’; and

(b) by the omission of paragraph (d) of that section,

H 15205—4,760 (7/68)

Short title.

Amendment of
Chapter 131.


2 Industrial Disputes (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 1968

6. Section 34 of the principal Act is hereby amended as
follows :—

(a) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substitution, for
the expression ‘‘ or of an order or award made ”’, of the
expression ‘‘ or of an order made ’’; and

(b) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitution,
for the expression ‘‘ or an award or order’’, of the
expression ‘‘ or an order ’’.

7. Section 35 of the principal Act is hereby amended as
follows :—

(a) by the substitution, for the expression ‘‘ court or labour
tribunal involves’’, of the expression ‘‘ court
involves ’’;

(b) by the substitution, for the expression ‘“‘ arbitrator or
tribunal shall ’’’, of the expression ‘‘ arbitrator shall ”’;
and

(c) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitution,
for the expression ‘‘ court or labour tribunal not'’, of
the expression ‘‘ court not ’’.

8. Section 39 of the principal Act is hereby amended in sub-
section (1) of that section, by the substitution, for the expression
‘‘ arbitrator, or labour tribunal (other than in proceedings under
Part IVa), the ’’, of the expression “‘ arbitrator, the ’’.

9. Section 40 of the principal Act is hereby amended in
sub-section (1) of that section as follows:—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of that sub-section,
for the expression ‘‘ court or a labour tribunal, does ’’, of
the expression ‘‘ court, does ’’;

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of that sub-section,
for the expression ‘‘ court or a labour tribunal, keeps ”’,
of the expression ‘‘ court, keeps ”’;

(c) by the substitution, in paragraphs (e), (f) and (ff) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘‘ court or a labour
tribunal and ’’ wherever it occurs in such paragraphs,
of the expression ‘‘ court and ’’;

(d) by the substitution, in paragraph (k) of that sub-section,
for the expression ‘‘ arbitrator or a labour tribunal,
or’, of the expression ‘‘ arbitrator or ’’;

(c) by the substitution, in paragraphs (1), (m) and (0) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘‘ arbitrator, or for
settlement by adjudication to a labour tribunal, but
wherever it occurs in such paragraphs, of the
expression ‘‘ arbitrator, but ’’; and -

(f) by the substitution, — .
(i) in paragraph (p) of that sub-section, for the expression
‘¢ arbitrator, or for settlement by adjudication to
a labour tribunal, but’’, of the expression
‘* arbitrator, but ”’;
(ii) in sub-paragraph (i) of the said paragraph (p), for
the expression “‘ arbitrator or tribunal, any ”’, of
the expression ‘‘ arbitrator, any  ; and


Industrial Disputes (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 39 of 1968

(iii) in sub-paragraph (ii) of the said paragraph (p), for
the expression “‘ arbitrator or tribunal;’’, of the
expression ‘‘ arbitrator;’’.

10. Section 43 of the principal Act is hereby amended in
sub-section (2) of that section, by the substitution, for the
expression ‘‘ arbitrator or labour tribunal as ’’, of the expression
‘* arbitrator as ’’.

11. Section 47c of the principal Act is hereby amended as
follows :—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (a) of that section, for
the expression ‘‘ arbitrator or for settlement by adjudi-
cation to a labour tribunal and ’’, of the expression
‘* arbitrator and ’’;

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of that section, for
the expression ‘‘ arbitrator or tribunal to’’, of the
expression ‘‘ arbitrator to’; and

(c) by the substitution, in paragraph (c) of that section, for
the expression ‘‘ arbitrator or tribunal such ’’, of the
expression ‘‘ arbitrator such ’’.

12. Section 48 of the principal Act is hereby amended by the
omission of the definition of the term ‘‘ appropriate labour
tribunal ’’.

Part II.

Amendments to the principal Act.

1. Section 48 of the principal Act is hereby amended in the
definition of ‘‘ workman” by the substitution, for the words
‘and, for the purposes of any proceedings under this Act in
relation to any industrial dispute, includes any person whose
services have been terminated.’’, of the words ‘‘ and includes
any person whose services have been terminated.’’.

2. The following new section is hereby inserted, immediately
after section 50, and shall have effect as section 51, of the
principal Act:—

wise 51. (1) Where the employer of any workman
manaeer'e —_ employed on any estate is a person who is called
estate to be or known as the ‘‘ superintendent ’’, or the
the employer. ‘“manager"’, it shall be sufficient, for the

purposes of any application made under section
3lz, or any reference under section 3 or section
4, of this Act, to designate such person in such
application or such reference as the ‘* superin-
tendent ’’ of that estate, or the ‘‘ manager "’ of
that estate, as the case may be, without the
addition of the name or any further description
of such superintendent, or manager, as the case
may be.

(2) No application or reference referred to in
sub-section (1) of this section, and no order or
award made on such application or reference,
shall be invalid tor the reason only that the
employer has been designated in accordance with
the provisions of that sub-section, ’,
