3

|, PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

*

NY ing :
oo ee tv

3rd Session 1967-68 "yas.

é
-

Act, No. 27 of 1966

Date of Assent: June 22, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to_ the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PupuicaTions Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLomsBo 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 35 cents. Postage : 10 cents.

Sy

=a XS
o 4

Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union


Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union Act, No. 27 of 1968
L. D.—O. 6/68.

An ACT TO INCORPORATE AN ASSOCIATION KNOWN AS
THE CEYLON Moor LapigEs’ UNION.

[Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

WHEREAS a society called and known as ‘“‘ The
Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union ’’, has heretofore been
established in Colombo, for the purpose of carrying
out and transacting all matters connected with the
said society according to the rules agreed to by its
members:

And whereas the said society has heretofore been
successfully carrying out its objects and it is now
desirable that the said society should be incorporated:

Be it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Ceylon Moor
Ladies’ Union Act, No. 27 of 1968.

2. From and after the date of commencement of
this Act, the Patroness, Vice-Patronesses, President,
Vice-Presidents, members of the Committee of the
Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union (hereinafter referred to as
the ‘‘ Union ’’) and such and so many persons who
are women above the age of eighteen years and
prateeeng the Islamic faith as are or as may

ereafter be enrolled as members of the Union shall
become and be a body corporate (hereinafter referred
to as ‘‘ the Corporation ’’) with perpetual succession,
a common seal, and the name ‘‘ The Ceylon Moor
Ladies’ Union’’. The Corporation may sue and be
sued by that name.

_ 8. The general objects for which the Corporation
is constituted are hereby declared to be: —

(az) to collect funds for and the establishment
and management of orphanages for
Muslims in Ceylon;
H 10887-3,210 (1/68)

Preamble.

Short title.

Incorporation
of the Ceylon
Moor Ladies’
Union.

General objects.


Contro] and
management of
the Union.

2 Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union Act, No. 27 of 1968

(b) to collect funds for and the establishment and
management of industrial homes or
centres in Ceylon to provide employment
facilities and training to poor and destitute
Muslim women and young girls;

(c) to promote the spiritual, intellectual, social
and physical welfare of the members of
the Union, as enjoined by Islam, and the
encouragement of its practical observance;

(zd) to make provision for the giving of poor
Muslim girls in marriage; and

(e) to provide facilities for the relief of poverty,
distress, sickness, unemployment and
illiteracy among, generally to ameliorate
the social and economic conditions, and to
promote the religious and cultural welfare
of, Muslim women in Ceylon.

4. (1) The control and management of the affairs
of the Union, including the power to expend the funds
of the Union and to deal with, dispose of, or acquire
by purchase, exchange, grant, gift, devise or bequest,
any immovable or movable property in the name of
the Union shall, subject to this Act and to the rules
for the time being in force, be vested in a Committee
of Management, constituted as hereinafter provided.

(2) The Committee of Management (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘‘ Committee ’’) of the Union shall
consist of the President, the Vice-Presidents, the
Honorary Secretary and the Honorary Treasurer of
the Union and four members elected in accordance
with the rules, at each general meeting of the Union.

(3) The President of the Corporation shall preside
at all meetings of the Corporation and in his absence
one of the Vice-Presidents may preside, and in the
absence of any of the Vice-Presidents, any member
duly elected may preside at such meeting.

(4) The first Committee shall consist of : —

Mrs. M. Ghouse Mohideen (President)
Mrs. Aysha Rauf (Vice-President)

Mrs. M. I. M. Haniffa (Vice-President)
Mrs. A. B. M. Sallih (Vice-President)

Mrs. O. L. M. Mashood (Vice-President)
Mrs. M. N. Haniffa (Hony. Secretary)
Mrs. A. H. Mohideen (Hony. Treasurer)
Mrs. M. H. M. Yusuf

Mrs. M. H. M. Mohideen

Mrs. M. S. Naina Marikar

Mrs. M. A. S. M. Mohideen


Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union Act, No. 27 of 1968 3

5. (1) It shall be lawful for the Union from time
to time at any general meeting of the members and
by the votes of the majority of the members present
at such meeting to make rules for the following
purposes : —

(a) the admission, withdrawal or expulsion of
members;

(b) the powers, conduct, functions, and duties of
the Committee, and of the various officers,
agents and servants of the Union;

(c) the procedure to be observed at meetings, and
in convening meetings, and in the trans-
action of business of the Union;

(d) the administration and management of the
property of the Union and of all other
property that may be vested in it;

(ec) the management of the affairs of the Union
and the achievement of its objects;

(f) the fixing of the rate of subscriptions payable
by members and the collection of such
subscriptions; and

(g) the custody of the seal of the Union.

(2) No rule made at any general meeting shall be
altered, amended or cancelled except by the votes of
a majority of two-thirds of the members present and
voting at a subsequent general meeting.

6. (1) The Committee may appoint a Board of
Trustees, consisting of three Ceylon Moors of standing
and professing the Islamic faith, with power an
authority to have and use the common seal, and in the
name of the Union to receive, take, hold, manage or
dispose of property, movable or immovable. In the
exercise of such power and authority the Trustees shall
be subject to the direction and control of the
Committee.

(2) A Trustee may be removed from office by a
resolution carried by the votes of two-thirds of the
members present and voting at a general meeting
convened for the purpose.

7. The Committee may, if it considers it
expedient, nominate and appoint any person to
represent the Union in any court of law or at any
inquiry or interview, and any such nomination an
appointment shall be limited to a particular case or
matter and shall not be in the nature of a general
appointment.

Union to
moke rules.

Board of
Trustees.

Representa-
tive of
Union in
court of
law.


Committee
to make
rules, eto.

Saving rights
of the Crown
and others.

4 Ceylon Moor Ladies’ Union Act, No. 27 of 1968

8. It shall be lawful for the Committee, from
time to time, at any meeting of the Committee and
by the votes of the majority of members to make
rules, not inconsistent with the rules made by the
members at any general meeting, for the conduct of
the duties and functions of the Committee, of
the Trustees, office-bearers, officers and servants of
the Committee, for the procedure in the transaction
of business, and otherwise generally for the manage-
ment of the affairs and the accomplishment of the
objects of the Committee. Such rules when made
may be added to, varied, amended or rescinded in
like manner at any subsequent meeting of the
Committee.

9. Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect
the rights of Her Majesty the Queen, Her Heirs and
Successors, or of any body politic or corporate or of
any other persons, except such as are mentioned
mn this Act, and those claiming by, from or under
them.
