PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
' SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

GREATER COLOMBO ECONOMIC
COMMISSION (AMENDMENT) ~
~~ ACT, No. 49 OF 1992

[Certified om 4th November, 1992] 7 ' |

Qo | (Printed on the Orders of Government)

o

Published as a Supplement to Part IT of the Gazette of the Democratic
| Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 06, 1992

PRLINLED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
i
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 60 cents. i . «+. Postage: Re. 1.00


.

Greater Colombo Economic Commission .
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1992
[Certified on 4th November, 1992]
- ~L. D—O. 74/92 ae '
An Acr TO AMEND THE GREATER COLOMBO EcoNoMIc
Commission Law, No. 4 oF 1978 |

BE it enactment by the Parliament of the . Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Greater Colombo.
Economic Commission (Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1992. ”

2. -The long title to the Greater Colombo Economic
Ccmmission Law, No. 4 of 1978, (hereinafter referred to as
“the principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the
substitution, for the words “Greater Colombo Economic
Commission” and “the said Commission”,
“ Board of Investment of Sri Lanka * and “the said Board”,
respectively.

3- (1) In the principal enactment and in any other
writien law, there shall be substituted for the words “ the
Greater Colombo Economic Commission” and “The
Commission” denoting the Greater Colombo Economic
Commission, the words “The Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka” and “The Board”, respectively.

(2) Every reference to “ The Greater Colombo Economic
Commission” or ‘“‘the Commission” denoting the Greater
Colombo Economic Commission in any notice, contract,

communication or other document shall be read and cons- .

trued as a reference respectively to, ‘The Board of Invest-
- ment of Sri Lanka” and “The Board”.
hereby

4. Section 6 of the principal enactment is

amended as follows —

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and
the substitution of the suede subsection
therefor :—

“ (1) The Board sail consist of five members
to be appointed by the President, one of whom
shall be appointed Director-General of the Board
and another shall be appointed as Additional
Director-General of the Board.” ; and

(2) by the substitution, in subsection (7) of that sec-:

tion, for the words ‘“ Director-General or any
other member”, of the words “ Director-General,
Additional Director-General or any other mem-
ber”.

of the words -

Short
title.

Amendment
of long

. title to

Law No. 4
of 1978.

Amendment
to the
principal
enactment
and

written

law.

_ Amendment

of

section 6
of the
principal
enactments


Greater Colombo Economic Commission Pei
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1992 :

references in such written law to the person, ‘
body. or authority empowered to exercise, +
perform and discharge, such powers, duties _
_and functions were references to the |
Board:

Provided that no power, duty or function
under the National Environmental Act shall
be exercised, performed or discharged by
the Board except in consultation with, and
the concurrence of, the Central Environ-
mental Authority established by that Act.”.

8. The following section is hereby inserted immediately Insertion
aiter section 26 and shall have effect as section 26A of the Gt section

26a in
sitaarals : \ - . the

priicipal enactment :— aa : | principal
5 a ea ait - enactment.
wee _26A. No enjoining order shall be issued |
to be under section 664 of the Civil Procedure

* noticed ' Code (as amended by Act No. 79 of 1988)
beforethe —_ ‘ a
issue of any * against— m
enjoining :
order.

(a) the Board, staying or restraining the
Board from proceeding with any
matter or thing in the exercise, per-
formance or discharge, or the pur-—
ported exercise, performance OF
discharge, bonafide, of any power,
duty or function conferred or impos-
ed on, or assigned to, the Board, by
this Law; or |

(Db) a licensed enterprise, an area enter-
prise or the proprietor, partner, .
director, manager, agent, officer or
servant of such licensed enterprise
or area enterprise or any person or
body performing any service or work
for such enterprise, staying or
‘restraining such licensed enterprise,
area enterprise, proprietor, partner ae
director, manager, agent, officer, .
, servant. person or body from  pro-
ceeding with any matter or thing
which such licensed enterprise Or.


Validation.

inconsis.
tency,

4 Greater Colombo Economic Commission
(Amendment) Act, No. 49 of 1992 |

area enterprise has been authorized,
licensed or permitted to do by. the
Board in the exercise, performance
or discharge, or the purported
“' exercise, performance or discharge, —
bona fide, of any power, duty or
function conferred or imposed on, or
assigned to, the Board, by this Law,

except after notice to, and hearing, the
Board,: licensed enterprise, area enterprise,
proprietor, partner, director, manager, agent,
officer, servant, person or body, as the case
may be. ”.

9. Any power, or duty exercised or performed by the
Addivional Director-General, prior to the date of com-
mencement of this Act, in pursuance or supposed pursuance,
of any power or duty delegated to him by the Board shall
be deemed to have been, and to he, validly exercised and
performed. — ;

{9. In the event of any inconsistency between “the
Sianala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall.

‘prevail.
