PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 3.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

TEA SHAKTHI FUND

ACT, No. 47 OF 2000

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

1Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

2H 0080565,550 (07/00)

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

L.D.O. 19/98.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FUND CALLEDTEA SHAKTHI FUND ; TO SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS AND POWERS ;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Tea Shakthi Fund Act,No. 47 of 2000.

2.(1) There shall be established a fund which shall becalled the Tea Shakthi Fund (hereinafter referred to as theFund).

(2) The Fund shall, by the name assigned to it by subsection(1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3.(1) The administration, management and control, ofthe Fund shall be vested in a Board of Management,(hereinafter referred to as the Board), constituted ashereinafter provided.

(2) The Board shall consist of the following membersappointed by the Minister

(i) the Chairman of the Tea Small Holdings Authority(hereinafter referred to as the Authority)established by the Tea Small Holdings DevelopmentLaw, No. 35 of 1975 ;

(ii) the General Manager of the Authority ;

(iii) the Deputy General Manager (Finance) of theAuthority ;

Constitution of theBoard ofManagement ofthe Fund.

Establishment ofTea Shakthi Fund.

Short title.

2Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

(iv) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance nominated by thatMinister ;

(v) a representative of the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Plantation Industrynominated by that Minister ;

(vi) The President of every Regional Registered Societynamely, Kalutara, Galle, Matara, Ratnapura, Kegalle,Kandy, Nuwara Eliya and Uva ;

(vii) The President of the Sri Lanka Federation of TeaSmall Holdings Development Societies who shallbe a member of the Board notwithstanding the factthat he is also the President of a Regional Registeredsociety.

(3) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove fromoffice any member of the Board.

4.(1) Chairman of the Authority shall preside atmeetings of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman fromany meeting, a member elected from among the memberspresent, shall preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall beseven members, including the three ex-officio membersreferred to in paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of subsection (2) ofsection 3.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2)the Board may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetingsof the Board, and the transaction of business of such meetings.

(4) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy amongits members or any defect in the appointment of a member.

Meetings of theBoard.

3Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

(5) A member of the Board may be paid such remunerationas may be determined by the Board, with the concurrence ofthe Minister and the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

5.The following persons shall be entitled to hold sharesin the Fund

(a) tea small holders who are members of registeredSocieties and members of their families, whocontribute to the Fund ;

(b) employees of the Authority or the Fund, whocontribute to the Fund.

6. (1) The Deputy General Manager of the Authority,in charge of development shall act as the Secretary to theBoard.

(2) The Secretary to the Board shall convene all themeetings of the Board and shall maintain records of suchmeetings but shall not be entitled to vote at the meetings ofthe Board.

7.The objects of the Fund shall be

(a) to inculcate and promote the savings habit in, and toimprove the economic and social status of, tea smallholders ;

(b) to promote necessary investments related to the teaindustry ;

(c) to acquire and to develop tea factories and to provideother facilities necessary for the manufacture of theproduce of tea small holders ;

(d) to promote and to develop the marketing of theproduce of such tea factories ;

Objects of theFund.

The Secretary tothe Board.

Membership ofthe Fund.

4Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

(e) to take such steps as may be necessary for theimprovement of well being of those who are engagedin the production of tea as small holders.

8.(1) The Board shall, in the name of the Fund, havethe power to do all things necessary for or conducive orincidental to the carrying out of the objects of the Fund.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1) the Board shall have the followingpowers :

(a) to acquire in any manner whatsoever and to hold,take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sellor otherwise dispose of, any movable or immovableproperty ;

(b) to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin writing in that behalf by the Board, all suchcontracts or agreements as are necessary for thecarrying out of the objects of the Fund ;

(c) to construct, maintain and repair buildings ownedby the Fund ;

(d) to purchase, transport, store, supply and maintain,any commodity, equipment, machinery, or servicenecessary for the carrying out of the objects of theFund ;

(e) to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over, such officers, servants andagents as may be necessary for carrying out of theobjects of the Fund ;

(f) to establish and maintain pension schemes, for thebenefit of tea small holders and to insure tea smallholdings against risks ;

Powers of theFund.

5Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

(g) to train, officers and servants of the Fund and createawareness among tea small holders about the objectsof the Fund ;

(h) to establish and maintain welfare and recreationalfacilities, hostels and other like accommodation forthe officers and servants of the Fund ;

(i) to open, operate and close, bank accounts and toborrow or raise money with the property of the Fundas security or without such security, for the carryingout the objects of the Fund ;

(j) to levy fees or other charges for services performed,or facilities or equipment provided, by the Fund ;

(k) to provide assistance, including financial assistanceby way of loans, or grants, to any registered Societyor any person or body of persons engaged in thecultivation of tea in small holdings ;

(l) to manage or participate in the management of, orassist in, or supervise the management of, tea lands,tea factories, tea bagging or tea packing plants,disposal units and any other venture related to thetea industry ;

(m) to make rules in respect of the administration andfinancial procedures of the Fund ;

(n) to invest such moneys of the Fund as are notimmediately required for its purposes, in suchsecurities as the Board may consider fit and totransfer or sell such securities ;

(o) to issue shares of the Fund to persons entitled to beshareholders and to pay dividends to suchshareholders out of the profits of the Fund.

6Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

9. There shall be paid into the Fund.

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted fromtime to time by the Parliament, for the use ofthe Fund ;

(b) all such sums of money as may be receivedby way of contributions from the members ofregistered societies and from officers andservants of the Authority and the Fund ;

(c) all such sums of money as are on the daypreceding the date of commencement of thisAct, lying to the credit of the Account at Bankof Ceylon Pelawatta bearing No. 0001153-7,and maintained by the Authority ;

(d) all such sums of money as may be receivedby the Fund in the exercise and performanceof its powers and duties.

10.There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a) all such expenditure as are incurred by the Board inthe working, establishment, maintenance of theFund ; and

(b) all such payments as are approved by the Board asbeing necessary for the purpose of carrying out theobjects of the Fund, or as are required by this Act, tobe paid out of the Fund.

11.The Board shall have power subject to the directionof the Minister

(a) to appoint such officers and servants of the Fund asmay be necessary for the administration andmanagement of the affairs of the Fund ;

(b) to determine the remuneration payable to the officersand servants so appointed ; and

Payments to theFund.

Payments out ofthe Fund.

Officers andservants of theFund.

7Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

(c) to pay such remuneration and other expensesincurred in the administration of the affairs of theFund out of the income of the Fund.

12.The seal of the Fund

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Boardmay from time to time determine ;

(b) may be affixed in such manner as may be determinedby the Board ;

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoeverexcept with the authority of the Board, and in thepresence of two members of the Board who shallsign their names on the instrument in token of theirpresence, such signing shall be independent of thesigning of any person as a witness.

13.(1) The Board shall cause proper books of accountsto be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand other transactions of the Fund .

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund.

(3) The income and expenditure account and the balancesheet shall be signed by two members of the Board authorizedto do so by a resolution passed by the Board.

(4) The financial year of the Fund shall be the calendaryear.

14.The Fund shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

15.All members and officers of the Fund shall be deemedto be public servants within the meaning and for the purposesof the Penal Code.

The Fund deemedto be a scheduledinstitution withinthe meaning of theBribery Act.

Members of theFund deemed tobe public servants.

Accounts andaudit.

Seal of the Fund.

8Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

16. (1) All officers and servants of the Tea Shakthi mainProject and Tea Shakthi Investment Project on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall where such officers or servants consent to be employeesof the Fund be deemed to be officers and servants of suchFund with effect from the date of commencement of this Act.

(2) All movable and immovable properties of, the TeaShakthi Main Project and Tea Shakthi Investment Project shallvest in the Fund, with effect from the date of commencementof this Act.

(3) All contracts and agreements entered into by or withor on behalf of the Tea Shakthi Main Project or Tea ShakthiInvestment Project and subsisting or having effect on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed with effect from the date of commencementof this Act, to be contracts and agreements entered into bythe Fund as fully and effectively as if, the Fund had been aparty thereto, and may be enforced accordingly.

(4) All suits, actions, appeals and other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the Tea Shakthi Main Project or TeaShakthi Investment Project or any person as representing theTea Shakthi Main Project or the Tea Shakthi InvestmentProject and pending on the day immediately preceding thedate of commencement of this Act, shall be deemed with effectfrom the date of commencement of this Act, to be suits,actions, appeals or other legal proceedings instituted by oragainst the Fund and may be continued accordingly.

(5) All judgments and orders made in favour of, or againstthe Tea Shakthi main Project or Tea Shakthi Investment Projector any person as representing the Tea Shakthi Main Projector the Tea Shakthi Investment Project and remainingunsatisfied on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed with effect fromthe date of commencement of this Act, to be judgements andorders made in favour of, or against, the Fund and may beenforced accordingly.

TransitionalProvisions.

9Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

Interpretation.

(6) All other rights, liabilities and obligations of the TeaShakthi Main project and Tea Shakthi Investment Project otherthan the rights, liabilities and obligations referred to insubsection (3) on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall be deemed with effect fromthe date of commencement of this Act, to be the rights,liabilities and obligations of the Fund.

17.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

18.In this Act unless the context otherwise require

registered Society means a Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Society registered by the Tea SmallHolding Development Authority under section 17A (4)of the Tea Small Holdings Development Law, No. 35of 1975 as amended by Act No. 36 of 1991 and ActNo. 21 of 1997 ;

Small Holding in relation to tea, means an area of landwhich is less than fifty acres in extent and on whichtea plants are grown, and the expression Smallholdershall be construed accordingly.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

10Tea Shakthi Fund Act, No. 47 of 2000

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.