PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PAYMENT DEVICES FRAUDSACT, No. 30 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th September, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 17.50Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 15, 2006

1Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

[Certified on 12th September, 2006]

L.D.O. 27/2004.

AN ACT TO PREVENT THE POSSESSION AND USE OF UNAUTHORISED OR

COUNTERFEIT PAYMENT DEVICES ; TO CREATE OFFENCES CONNECTED

WITH THE POSSESSION OR USE OF UNAUTHORISED PAYMENT DEVICES ;

TO PROTECT PERSONS LAWFULLY ISSUING AND USING SUCH PAYMENT

DEVICES ; TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION

AND PUNISHMENT OF OFFENDERS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Payment Devices FraudsAct, No. 30 of 2006.

2.The provisions of this Act shall apply in respect of allpayment devices lawfully issued by an lssuer.

3.(1) Any person who

(a)possesses or has in the control or custody of suchperson without lawful authority, equipment usedfor the making or altering of payment devicesincluding an embossing, encoding or skimmingdevice ;

(b)without lawful authority, tampers with any paymentdevice or card making or altering equipment or anyequipment used for acceptance or processing ofpayment devices or implants foreign objectsincluding chips, data or voice recording devices, torecord transaction data ;

(c)uses without lawful authority a phone listeningdevice or other similar device, including any voiceor data recording device, for the purpose of capturingauthorization data passing through the acquirerspoint of sale networks or automated teller machinenetwork ;

Short title.

Application ofthe Act.

Acts amountingto paymentdevices fraud.

2Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(d)being an employees of an Issuer or its processors or isa service provider, provides any cardholder information or full track data to unauthorisedindividuals, groups or syndicates without thepayment device holders authority or permission ;

(e)possesses or has in his control or custody, anyunauthorised or counterfeit payment device ;

(f)makes a fraudulent application for a payment deviceor a fraudulent merchant application;

(g)uses, produces or trafficks in one or moreunauthorised or counterfeit payment devices ;

(h)uses an unauthorized payment device or a paymentdevice without obtaining permission therefor fromeither its, Issuer or holder;

(i)generates, valid payment device account numbers,using account generating software for the purposeof utilizing such account numbers for committingan offence under this or any other written law ;

(j)furnishes for the purpose of obtaining goods orservices, information contained in any paymentdevice by telephone, facsimile, email internet orother mode of telecommunication or by voice orthrough the postal service, without the authority orpermission of the holder of the payment device andinduces the person receiving the information toaccept the information for the supply of goods orservices ;

(k)makes multiple imprints of a transaction record, salesinvoice or similar document, thereby making itappear that the payment device holder has enteredinto transactions other than those which suchpayment device holder had lawfully contracted for ;

3Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(l)knowing that a payment device is unauthorised orcounterfeit, accepts such unauthorised or counterfeitpayment device as a mode of payment for goods orservices ;

(m)submits without being an affiliated merchant, anorder to collect from the Issuer of the paymentdevice, such transaction record, sales invoice orsimilar document through an affiliated merchantwho connives therewith, or under the false pretenceof being an affiliated merchant, presents forcollection such transaction record, sales invoice orsimilar document ;

(n)alters or causes another person to alter, without thepayment device holders authority or permission,any amount or other information appearing on thesales invoice ;

(o)accepts as a mode of payment, a payment device orinformation imprinted on the payment device, forthe purpose of dishonestly gaining a financialadvantage ;

(p)writes, or causes to be written on sales invoices,approval numbers from the Issuer of the paymentdevice, which is proof of the fact of approval, wherein fact no such approval was given, or where, ifapproval was actually given what is written isdeliberately different therefrom;

(q)has in such persons possession, without authorityfrom the payment device holder or the Issuer, anymaterial such as invoices, carbon paper or any othermedium, on which the payment device is written,printed, embossed or otherwise indicated;

(r)obtains money or goods through the use of apayment device, with intent to defraud ; or

4Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(s)induces, entices, permits or in any manner allowsanother person, for consideration or otherwise, tocommit or engage in any of the acts specified in thepreceding paragraphs of this section,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) A person guilty of an offence under this Act shall, onconviction after trial before the High Court

(i)in the case of an offence under paragraphs (a), (b).(c), (d), (e), (g), (h), (i), (j) or (r) be liable to a term ofimprisonment not exceeding ten years or to a finenot exceeding rupees five hundred thousand or toboth such imprisonment and fine;

(ii)in the case of an offence under paragraphs (k) or (q)be liable to a term of imprisonment not exceedingfive years or to a fine not exceeding two hundredthousand rupees or to both such imprisonment andfine;

(iii)in the case of an offence under paragraphs (f), (l),(m), (n), (o) or (p) be liable to a term of imprisonmentnot exceeding three years or to a fine not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees or to a fine whichmay extend to five times the value of the moneyobtained by the commission of the act constitutingthe offence or the financial advantage gained,consequent to the commision of the act constitutingthe offence, whichever is higher, or to both suchimprisonment and fine;

(iv)in the case of an offence under paragraph (s) be liableto one and half times the punishment prescribed forthe offence which the offender induces, entices,permits or allows another person to commit.

5Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

4.Any person who attempts to commit an offence underthis Act or to cause such an offence to be committed, shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liable to afine not exceeding one half of the maximum fine providedfor each of such offences, or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding one half of the maximumterm provided for each of such offences, or to both such fineand imprisonment.

5.(1) Any person who abets the commission of an offenceunder this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall onconviction

(a)if the offence abetted is committed in consequenceof the abetment, be liable to the same punishmentas is provided for the offence; and

(b)if the offence is not committed in consequence ofthe abetment, be liable to

(i)where a maximum fine or term ofimprisonment is provided for, to a fine notexceeding one fourth of the maximum fineprovided for the offence or to imprisonmentof either description for a term not exceedingone fourth of the maximum term provided forthe offence, or to both such fine andimprisonment; and

(ii)in cases where the maximum fine orimprisonment is not provided for, to a finenot exceeding two hundred and fifty thousandrupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding five yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

Attempts tocommit offences.

Abetment of anoffence.

6Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(2) The term abet shall have the same meaning as insections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and theprovisions of sections 101A, 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107 ofthe Penal Code shall mutatis mutandis apply in relation tothe abetment of any offence under this Act.

6.(1) Any person who conspires to commit an offenceunder this Act shall be guilty of an offence and shall, onconviction after trial before the High Court be liable to bepunished with the punishment prescribed for abetting thecommission of that offence.

(2) The term conspire shall have the same meaning as insection 113A (2) of the Penal Code (Chapter 19) and theprovisions of that section shall mutatis mutandis apply inrelation to a conspiracy to commit an offence under this Act.

PART II

INVESTIGATION

7.Except as otherwise provided in this Act, all offencesunder this Act shall be investigated, tried or otherwise dealtwith in accordance with the provisions of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

8.(1) The Minister may, by Order published in theGazette appoint a panel of experts from among persons havingthe prescribed qualifications in electronic engineering orsoftware engineering or in any area of expertise identified bythe Minister (hereinafter referred to as an expert) to assistthe police in all investigation into an offence under this Act.

(2) The qualifications (having regard to the specific areasof expertise in electronic engineering or software engineering)required by persons serving as experts and the manner andmode of appiontment and the conditions of appointment ofsuch experts shall be as prescribed by regulations.

Conspiracy tocommit anoffence.

Offences under thisAct to beinvestigated underthe provisions ofthe Code ofCriminal ProcedureAct.

Experts and theirpowers andfunctions.

7Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(3) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared thatfor the purposes of this Act, expert shall be deemed toinclude any person, institution or any body of persons.

(4) For the purpose of an investigation under this Act, anexpert called upon to assist the police in an investigation,shall, have the power to

(a)enter upon any premises along with a police officernot below the rank of a sub-inspector;

(b)access any information system, computer orcomputer system or any programme, data orinformation held in such computer and to cause anycomputer or any other device utilized for thecommission of the fraud to perform any function asmay be necessary for such purpose;

(c)require any person to produce any document,information, device or other thing as is necessaryfor the purpose of such investigation;

(d)require any person to disclose any traffic data ;

(e)orally examine any person; and

(f)do such other things as may be reasonably required,for the purposes of this Act.

(5) An expert shall be paid such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Minister in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the the subject of Finance.

(6) An expert appointed under this section may be calledupon to assist any Police Officer in the investigation of anoffence under this Act, and it shall be the duty of such expertto render all such assistance as may be required for thepurposes of such investigation. Where any proceedings havebeen commenced consequent to the findings of an

8Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

investigation, it shall be the duty of the expert to makeavailable for the purposes of such proceedings, anyinformation, data, material or other matter that may beobtained by him in the course of such investigation and wherecalled upon to do so to give evidence in such proceedings.

9.(1) Every police officer and every expert who conductsany search or inspection or does any other thing in the courseof an investigation, shall make every endeavour to ensurethat the ordinary course of legitimate business for which anacquirers point of sales network or automated teller machinenetwork is used, is not hampered by such search, inspectionor investigation and shall not seize such acquirers point ofsales network or automated teller machine network or partthereof, if such seizure will prejudice the conduct of theordinary course of business for which such network is used,unless

(a)it is not possible to conduct the inspection on thepremises where such network, or part thereof islocated ; or

(b)seizure of such network or part thereof is essentialto prevent the commission of the offence or thecontinuance of the offence or to obtain custody ofany information which would otherwise be lost,destroyed, modified or rendered inaccessible.

(2) A police officer or an expert conducting aninvestigation under the Act, shall conduct and conclude suchinvestigation as expeditiously as the circumstances of thecase permit.

10.(1) Any police officer may, in the course of aninvestigation under this Act, exercise powers of arrest, search,or seizure in the manner provided for by law :

Provided that a police officer making an arrest without awarrant of a person suspected of committing an offence underthis Act, shall without unnecessary delay and within twenty-

Legitimate use ofnetwork not tobe hampered.

Powers of policeofficer to arrest,search and seize.

9Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

four hours of such arrest, exclusive of the time taken for thejourney from the place of arrest to the presence of theMagistrate, produce such person before the Magistrateof the Court nearest to the place where the suspect isarrested.

(2) No police officer shall access any payment device,computer or acquirers point of sales network or automatedteller machine network for the purpose of an investigationunder this Act unless the Inspector-General of Police hascertified in writing that such police officer possesses adequateknowledge and skill in the field of information,communication, technology or electronic or softwareengineering and is possessed of the required expertise toperform such a function.

11.(1) Any person who is required by an expert or apolice officer to make any disclosure or to assist in aninvestigation under this Act, shall comply with suchrequirement.

(2) A person who obstructs the lawful exercise of thepowers conferred on an expert or a police officer or fails tocomply with any reasonable request made by such expert orpolice officer during an investigation shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable to fine not exceedingtwo hundred thousand rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a period not less than one year and notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

12.(1) Every person engaged in an investigation underthis Act shall maintain strict confidentiality with regard toall information as may come to his knowledge in the courseof such investigation and he shall not, other than in thedischarge of his duties under this Act, disclose to any personor utilize for any purpose whatsoever any information soobtained.

Duty to assistinvestigation.

Confidentialityof informationobtained in thecourse of aninvestigation.

10Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(2) Every person from whom any information has beenrequested or obtained and any person to whom a writtennotice has been issued for the preservation of any information,shall maintain strict confidentiality in relation to suchinformation and the fact that such information has beenrequested, obtained or required to be preserved, and shall notmake any disclosure in regard to such matters other thanwhen required to do so in compliance with the provisions ofany written law.

(3) A person referred to in this section shall not be heldliable under the civil or criminal law for the disclosure of anydata or other information for the purposes of an investigationunder this Act.

(4) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsections (1) and (2) shall be guilty of an offence and shallon conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding three hundredthousand rupees or to imprisonment of either description fora term not exeeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

13.Where in the course of any trial for an offence underthis Act, it appears by the evidence led, that the offence infact committed by the accused is different to the offence withwhich he has been charged, or that it is a lesser offence thanthe one with which he has been charged, then the court mayin its discretion alter the Indictment and after such alterationhas been made, proceed with the trial as if the alteredIndictment had been the original Indictment.

14.When an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of that body of persons ; or

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner of thatfirm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence :

Indictment fordifferent offenceto the one withwhich theoffender ischarged.

Offences bybodies ofpersons.

11Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

Provided that a director or an officer of such body corporateor a partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be guilty ofsuch offence, if such director, officer or partner proves thatsuch offence was committed without his or her knowledge orthat he or she exercised all such diligence as is necessary toprevent the commission of such offence.

15.Where a fine is imposed by the Court for an offenceunder section 3 of this Act, such Court may direct that

(a)the whole or any part of the fine recovered, be paidto the Issuer of the payment device or to any otherperson who has suffered loss thereby, ascompensation for such loss ; and

(b)unless the court otherwise directs, all moneys, itemsor property, seized by the police during the courseof investigations shall be returned to the issuer ofthe payment device as the lawful owner or to theperson who establishes his lawful right to suchmoneys, items or property.

16.(1) A certified copy of an entry relating to a paymentdevice located in Sri Lanka or outside Sri Lanka, kept by anIssuer or acquirer in the ordinary course of business of suchIssuer or acquirer, whether kept in written form or stored byelectronic, magnetic, optical or any other means in aninformation system or computer or payment device shall beadmissible in evidence in relation to a prosecution in respectof an offence under section 3 of this Act, and shall be primafacie evidence of the facts stated therein.

(2) Every document, certificate, record, register or extractthereof, if duly signed and issued by an expert either in SriLanka or abroad, and duly authenticated by a senior executiveof an Issuer or acquirer to whose transactions, or to whoseinterests such document, certificate record or register orextract thereof relates, shall be prima facie proof of the factsstated therein.

Court may awardcompensation.

Evidence.

12Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(3) In subsection (1) a certified copy means a copy ofthe entry with a certificate written at the foot of that copy bythe chief exective officer of the Issuer or acquirer or any of itsauthorized representatives certifying it as a true copy, andwhere such an entry is stored in an information system orcomputer, a print out of such entry certified as a true copy byan officer holding a responsible position in relation to theoperation of the relevant information system or computer.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theEvidence Ordinance or any other law the provisions of thissection shall have effect and apply to the prosecution ofoffences under section 3.

17.Any person who has the possession, control orcustody of

(a)a counterfeit or unauthorised payment device ;

(b)any card making or altering equipment withoutlawful authority ;

(c)a payment device without authority from its holderor Issuer ;

(d)any equipment used for acceptance or processing ofa payment device without lawful authority,

shall be presumed until the contrary is proved to have suchpayment device or equipment in his possession, custody orcontrol, for the purpose of committing an offence under thisAct.

18.A holder of a credit card or other payment device

(a)who has failed to pay the total sum due to the Issuerof such credit card or payment device within theperiod allowed therefor by the Issuer ; and

Presumptions.

Presumption offraud by lawfulholder ofpayment device.

13Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(b)who changes his residence or place of employmentas stated in the application for such payment devicewithout informing the issuer of such change,

shall be presumed to have done so with intent to wilfullydefraud the Issuer of such sum.

19.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theJudicature Act, No. 2 of 1978 every offence under this Actshall be triable by the High Court established under Article154P of the Constitution for the Western Province holden inColombo.

20.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every offence underthis Act, shall be deemed to be a cognizable offence within themeaning and for the purposes of that Code.

21.Any expenses incurred by an expert or police officerin any suit or prosecution brought against such expert orpolice officer in a court in respect of any act which is done, orpurported to be done by him or her under this Act, shall, if theCourt holds that the act was done in good faith, be paid outof the funds of the Issuer or acquirer as the case may be, whoalleges the commission of the offence, unless such expenseis recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

22.The Schedule to the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977is hereby amended by the insertion immediately before PartB thereof, of the following :

( 48)An offence within the meaning of the PaymentDevices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006.

23.Notwithstanding anything contained in theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977 an offence in terms of this Actshall for the purpose only of extradition under that law, bedeemed not to be a fiscal offence, or an offence of a politicalcharacter, or an offence connected with a political offence oran offence inspired by political motives.

High Court tohave jurisdiction.

Offences underthis Act to becognizableoffences.

payment ofexpensesincurred onaction.

Amendment tothe ExtraditionLaw, No. 8 of1977.

Interpretation inrelation to theExtradition Law.

14Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

24.Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka by or on behalf of the Government of another countryfor the extradition of any person accused or convicted of anoffence under this Act, the Minister shall, on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka forthwith notify the Governmentof the requesting State of the measures that the Governmentof Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take, for the prosecutionor extradition of that person for that offence.

25.(1) The provisions of the Mutual Assistance inCriminal Matters Act, No. 25 of 2002 shall, wherever it isnecessary for the investigation and prosecution of an offenceunder section 3 of this Act, be applicable in respect of theproviding of assistance as between the Government of SriLanka and other States who are either Commonwealthcountries specified by the Minister by Order under section 2of the aforesaid Act or Non-Commonwealth countries withwhich the Government of Sri Lanka has entered into anagreement in terms of the aforesaid Act.

(2) In the case of a country which is neither aCommonwealth country specified by the Minister by Orderunder section 2 of the aforesaid Act, nor a Non-Commonwealth country with which the Government of SriLanka has entered into an agreement in terms of the aforesaidAct, then it shall be the duty of the Government to afford allsuch assistance to, and may through the Minister request allsuch assistance as may be necessary for the investigation andprosecution of an offence under section 3 to the extent requiredfor the discharge of its obligations (including assistancerelating to the taking of evidence and statements, the servingof process and the conduct of searches).

(3) The grant of assistance to a convention country maybe made subject to such terms and conditions as the Ministerthinks fit.

Duty of Ministerto notifyrequesting Stateof measurestaken againstpersons forwhoseextradition arequest is made.

Assistance tocountries &c,.

15Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

26.(1) Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lankais arrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled

(a)to communicate without delay with the nearestappropriate representative of the State of which heis a national or which is otherwise entitled to protecthis rights or if he is a stateless person, with the nearestappropriate representative of the State in the territorywhere he was habitually resident; and

(b)to be visited by a representative of that State.

(2) A request under section 24 shall be deemed not to beinvalidated for the purposes of any legal proceedings byreason of any failure to comply with the provisions of section25 provided that there is sufficient compliance with thoseprovisions to enable it to properly execute the request.

27.(1) Where a person is arrested for an offence underthis Act, the Minister to whom the administration of this Actis assigned shall inform the Minister in charge of the subjectof Foreign Affairs to inform the relevant authorities in anyother State which has made a request under sections 24 and25 in respect of such person, of the measures which theGovernment of Sri Lanka has taken or proposes to take forthe prosecution or extradition of that person.

(2) Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka, by or on behalf of the Government of any State, forthe extradition of any person accused or convicted of anoffence corresponding to an offence under this Act, theMinister in charge of the subject of Foreign Affairs shall, onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwith inform theGovernment of the requesting State, of the measures whichthe Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes to take,for the prosecution or extradition of that person.

Right of personsarrested underthis Act.

Duty of Ministerto inform otherStates havingjurisdiction overan offence.

16Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(3) Where it is decided that no order should be made underthe Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, for the extradition of anyperson accused or convicted of an offence corresponding to anoffence under this Act, pursuant to a request for his extraditionmade under that Law, by the Government of any State, the caseshall be submitted to the law enforcement authorities, so thatprosecution for the offence under the law of Sri Lanka, or anyother appropriate action may be considered.

28.Where there is an extradition arrangement in forcebetween the Government of Sri Lanka and the Governmentof any other State, such arrangement shall be deemed, for thepurposes of the Extradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to includeprovision for extradition in respect of an offence under thisAct and of attempting or conspiring to commit or aiding andabetting the commission of such offence.

29.The Government shall afford such assistance(including the supply of any relevant evidence at its disposal)to the relevant authorities of any foreign State as may benecessary in connection with criminal proceedings institutedin that State against any person, in respect of an offenceunder the law of that State corresponding to an offence underthis Act.

30.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act, and in respect of matters that are bythis Act required or authorised to be prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved, shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

Provisionregardingextraditionarrangement.

Duty ofGovernment toafford assistanceto other States.

Regulations.

17Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

31.In the event of any inconsistency, between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

32.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

acquirer means the bank or the financial institution thatis authorized to appoint merchants to accept paymentdevice transactions or offers cash disbursementservices to payment device holders or both suchfunctions, and where the payment devices acceptedby the merchants are cleared and settled and theproceeds are reimbursed by the acquirer;

authorisation means the process by which an acquirerobtains an approval from the Issuer for a paymentdevice transaction. The authorisation process couldbe either by voice recognition or by electronicmeans;

cardholder means the person or organization named onthe face of a payment device to whom or for whosebenefit the payment device is issued by an Issuer;

counterfeit payment device means a counterfeit,fictitious, altered or forged payment device, or apayment device where an identifiable componentis counterfeit;

card making or altering equipment means a part of, orcomplete equipment or machinery, whether manual,electro magnetic or electronic, used for embossing,encoding, recording or storing data on any paymentdevice and which may also be used for producingcounterfeit payment devices;

Sinhlala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

18Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

computer means an electronic or similar device havinginformation processing capabilities;

data means a representation of information or of conceptsthat are being prepared or have been prepared in aform suitable for use in a computer or in a paymentdevice or which is stored or generated by acomputer;

fraudulent application means an application made toobtain a payment device which contains anyfalsified documents, false information, fictitiousidentity and address or any other false pretences ormisrepresentations and which induces the Issuer toissue a payment device;

fraudulent merchant application means an applicationmade by a person, a body of persons, entity ororganization pretending to be a merchant usinginformation that is false, incorrect or misleading inorder to mislead the acquirer into believing that themerchant will accept the payment device;

full track data means the data including the discretionarydata encoded on track one and two on the magneticstripe of a payment device;

holder means a person to whom a payment device isissued on an application made to an Issuer;

Information includes data, text, images, sound, codes,computer programmes, databases or microfilm;

information system includes a system, whetherautomated or manual (includingtelecommunications, computer or computer relatedor interconnected system or sub-systems ofequipment or both such systems or sub-systems)

19Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

which comprises people, machines and methods,that is used to collect, process, store, manipulate,manage, transmit, display, disseminate, switch,interchange, or receive voice or data, or both andincludes software, firmware and hardware;

Issuer means a banking institution or other body,authority or institution legally authorized to issue apayment device and thereby enter into a contractualrelationship with the holder thereof;

merchant means a person or an organisation which isacknowledged by an issuer to sell goods and servicesor disburse cash on the acceptance of a paymentdevice;

payment device means

(a)a credit card and includes any card, plate, code,account number, microchip, opticalinstrument or document wherein magnetisedencoding has taken place; or

(b)a device in which account numbers andmandatory or discretionary data orinformation relating to the holder of suchdevice is recorded and stored by mechanical,electronic, electro magnetic, optical or othermeans, and which card or device is recognizedby the Issuer thereof, and which facilitates

(i)the extension of credit for obtaininggoods or services; or

(ii)the making of cash withdrawals anddoing other acts in relation to a bankaccount,

to or by the holder to whom such card or devicehas been lawfully issued by an Issuer);

20Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

payment device holder information includes, anyinformation imprinted, encoded or embossed on thepayment device such as the account number or nameor address of the holder thereof;

point of sales network means the network of point ofsales terminals deployed by the acquiring bank;

produce means design, alter, authenticate, duplicate orassemble;

skimming means the copying of encoded data on themagnetic stripe of one payment device to anothergenuine or counterfeit device including whiteplastic;

traffic includes manufacturing, importing, exporting,keeping with intent to transfer, concealing, buying,selling, giving, receiving, storing, administering,transporting, carrying, sending, delivering,procuring, supplying or distributing without lawfulauthority or reasonable excuse one or morecounterfeit or unauthorised payment devices;

traffic data means

(a)data that relates to the attributes of acommunication by means of an informationsystem or computer system;

(b)generated by an information system orcomputer system that is part of a serviceprovider;

(c)data, which shows communications origin,destination, route, time, data, size, durationor details of subscriber information; and

21Payment Devices Frauds Act, No. 30 of 2006

(d)any data flowing through a communicationsystem.

unauthrorised payment device means any paymentdevice which is stolen, lost, expired, revoked,cancelled, suspended or obtained or used bymisrepresentation of facts.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.