PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

veers

Ath Session..1959-60 ..)°

Stamp (Amendment) Act,
No. 21 of 1959

Date of Assent: September 12, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurEAU, CoLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SuPpERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 20 cents. Postage: 10 cents. _


Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 21 1959 3
L. D.—O. 8/59.

AN AcT TO AMEND THE STAMP ORDINANCE AND TO
MAKE CERTAIN CONSEQUENTIAL PROVISIONS.

(Date of Assent: September 12, 1959.)

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Stamp
(Amendment) Act, No. 21 of 1959.

2. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 1, and shall have effect as
section 1A, of the Stamp Ordinance (hereinafter
referred to as the ‘‘ principal enactment ’’):—

“Officers. 1A. For the purpose of administering
this Ordinance, there may be appointed
to the Department of Inland Revenue
such number of officers as may be
mecessary.’’.

3. Section 2 of the principal enactment, as amended
We Act No. 26 of 1948, is hereby amended as
ollows : —

(a) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the
substitution, for paragraph (ii) of the
proviso to that sub-section, of the following
paragraph :— .

““ (ii) any such instrument executed by,
or on behalf of, or in favour of, the
Government of any country in res-
pect of which an Order under sub-
section (2) is in force as is an
instrument to which that Order
applies;’’; and

(6) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the
substitution, for the words ‘“‘to that
country.’’, of the following :—

‘to a similar instrument executed by, or
on behalf of, or in favour of, the
Government of that country.’’.

J.N. R 2072—~4,054 (6/59)

Short title.

‘Insertion of

new section
1a in Chapter
189,

Amendment of
section 2 of
the principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 90 of

the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
Part I of
Schedule A to
the principal
enactment.

4. Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 21 1959

4. Section 90 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended. by the substitution, for the definition of
‘Commissioner of Stamps’”’, of the following
definition : —

>

‘ “* Commissioner ’’ means the Commissioner of
Inland Revenue appointed for the purposes
of the Income Tax Ordinance and includes
any officer of the Department of Inland
Revenue authorised by such Commissioner
in writing in respect of any particular
matter or any provision of this
Ordinance;’.

5. Part I of Schedule A to the principal enact-
ment, as amended by Act No. 16 of 1958, is hereby
amended by the substitution, for item 32 thereof, of
the following item : —

‘« 32. (1) Gift or deed of gift of any property—
(a) where the value of the property—

Rs. ¢.

(i) does not exceed Rs. 50... 1. 0
(ii) exceeds Rs. 50 but does

not exceed Rs. 100 ... 2. 0
(iii) exceeds Rs. 100 but does

not exceed Rs. 200... 4. 0
(iv) exceeds Rs. 200 but does

not exceed Rs. 300 .. 6.0
(v) exceeds Rs. 300 but does

not exceed Rs. 400 wae «8, 10
(vi) exceeds Rs. 400 but does

not exceed Rs. 500 —.... :10. 0

(vii) exceeds Rs. 500 but does
not exceed Rs. 1,000 ... 15. 0

(b) where the property exceeds Rs. 1,000
in value, Rs. 15 and an additional
sum computed at the rate of Rs. 8
for every Rs. 500, or any outstand-
ing fraction thereof, in excess of .
Rs. 1,000. :

(2) Except in any case where different allot-
ments are treated and described as one pro-
perty, and from their situation as respects each


Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 21 1959 5

other can be included in one survey, a gift or
deed of gift affecting more than one land shall
be liable to further duty as follows : —

For each additional land—
Rs.:c.
(i) where the aggregate value
of all the lands does not
exceed Rs. 100 set (Q525

(ii) where the aggregate value
of all the lands exceeds
Rs. 100 but does not exceed
Rs. 300 . 0.50

(iii) where the aggregate value
of all the lands exceeds
Rs. 300 ® gee Ue Os

6. The word ‘‘ Commissioner’’ is hereby
substituted for the expression ‘‘ Commissioner of
Stamps ’’ wherever that expression occurs in the
principal enactment.

7. (1) All suits, prosecutions, appeals or other
legal proceedings, civil or criminal, instituted by or
against the Commissioner of Stamps before the date
on which this Act comes into operation may be
‘continued by or against the Commissioner of Inland
Revenue.

(2) Any proxy or petition signed by the Commis-
sioner of Stamps and filed of record in any legal pro-
ceedings pending on the day immediately preceding
the date on which this Act comes into operation shall,
on and after that date, have effect as if it had been
signed by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(3) All decrees or orders made by any competent
court in favour of, or against, the Commissioner of
Stamps before the date on which this Act comes into
operation shall, on and after that date, be deemed to
have been made in favour of, or against, the Commis-
sioner of Inland Revenue.

(4) Any notice of objection given under the principal
enactment to the Commissioner of Stamps before the
date on which this Act comes into operation shall, on
and after that date, be deemed to have been given to
the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(5) Where an appeal to the Supreme Court against
the opinion of the Commissioner of Stamps under
section 29 of the principal enactment is pending on
the day immediately preceding the date on which this

Substitution

of the word
‘‘Commissioner”’
for the
expression

‘* Commissioner
of Stamps "’.

Savings,


6 Stamp (Amendment) Act, No. 21 1959

Act comes into operation, such opinion shall, on and
after that date, be deemed to be the opinion of the
Commissioner of Inland Revenue under that section
and such appeal shall be deemed to be an appeal against
an opinion of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue
under that section.

(6) An adjudication of the Commissioner of Stamps
under sub-section (3) of section 31 of the priacipal
enactment shall, on and after the date on which this
Act comes into operation, be deemed to be an adjudi-
cation of the Commissioner of Inland Revenue under
that sub-section.

(7) All notices, certificates, other documents,
demands, or determinations issued or made under the
rincipal enactment by the Commissioner of Stamps
before the date on which this Act comes into operation
shall, on and after that date, have effect as if they
were issued or made by the Commissioner of Inland

Revenue.

(8) An authorisation issued to any person by the
‘Commissioner of Stamps and in force on the day
immediately preceding the date on which this Act
comes into operation shall, on and after that date,
have effect as if it had been issued by the Commissioner
of Inland Revenue.

(9) Any act or proceeding commenced under the
principal enactment by the Commissioner of Stamps
and not completed before the date on which this Act
comes into operation may be completed by the Com-
missioner of Inland Revenue.

(10) A sanction given by the Commissioner of
Stamps under the principal enactment for the institu-
tion of a prosecution which is pending on the day
immediately preceding the date on which this Act
comes into operation shall have effect as if it was given
by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.

(11) The reference to Commissioner of Stamps in any
written law shall, on or after the date on which this
Act comes into operation, be deemed to be a reference
to the Commissioner of Inland Revenue.
