PARLIAMENT OF CEYLUN
O2nd Session 1957-58

4

Conciliation Boards Act, No. LO
of . 1958

Date of Assent: March 12, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, | CEYLON. ‘To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Brice : 30 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958 =

_, D.—O. 47/57.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF Con-
gi CILIATION BOARDS IN VILLAGE AREAS AND IN SUCH
OTHER AREAS AS MAY BE DETERMINED BY THE MINISTER
OF J USTICE, TO DEFINE THE. POWERS AND DUTIES OF
suCH BOARDS, AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS
CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

i [Date of Assent: March 12, 1958}

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

. game, as follows :—

4, This Act may be cited as the Conciliation
Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958.

" 9, (1) This Act shall be in operation in every
village area and in such other areas as may be deter-
mined by the Minister of Justice by Order published
in the Gazette.

(2) This Act shall be in operation in any area deter-
mined by the Minister of Justice under sub-section (1)
subject to such modifications of its provisions as may
be set out in the Order by which such determination is

made.

3. (1) For the purposes of this Act the Minister of
Justice may from time to time, by Order published in
the Gazette, appoint for any village area a Panel of
Conciliators of not less than twelve persons from which
Conciliation Boards for that village area shall be
constituted as hereinafter provided.

(2) Where a Panel of Conciliators is to be consti-
tuted for any village area, the Minister of Justice
shall, by notice published in the Gazette and in such
other manner as may bé determined by him, notify that
it is intended to constitute such Panel and that recom-
mendations under sub-section (3) may be made to him
in writing within such time as shall be specified in
the notice in regard to the persons who are to be
appointed to such Panel.

(8) The Village Committee of any village area for
which a Panel of Conciliators is to be constituted,
every Rural Development Society and every Praja
Mandalaya in that village area, and every such Co-
Operative Society in tl.at village area as is registered
“TAN, R 19774—3,025 (11/57) ,

Short title,

Operation of
this Act.

Pane! of
Conciliators.


Chairman of
Pane} of
Cenciliators.

Censtitution
ef Conciliation

Seards.

4+ Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958 =
under the Co-operative Societies Ordinance may
within the time allowed therefor by the notice undey
sub-section (2), recommend in writing to the Ministey
of Justice such persons as are in the opinion of the
recommending body fit to be members of such Panel. «

(4) Any person resident in a village area and any
public officer engaged in any work in that village areg
may be appointed as a member of the Panel of.
Conciliators for that village area. ‘

sy

(5) The Minister of Justice shall take into con.
sideration such recommendations as may be made under

sub-section (3) in appointing the members of a Panel of
Conciliators.

(6) A member of a Panel of Conciliators may resign
office by letter addressed to the Minister of Justice.

(7) The Minister of Justice may, without assigning
any reason, remove from oflice any member of a Panel
of Conciliators. |

(8) Every member of a Panel of Conciliators shall,
unless he earlier vacates or is removed from office, hold
office for such period not exceeding three years as the
Minister of Justice may determine at the time of the
appointment of such member. Any member of a Panel
of Conciliators vacating office by effluxion of time shall
be eligible for reappointment.

4. (1) The Minister of Justice shall appoint one
of the members of the Panel of Conciliators constitu ted
for any village area to be the Chairman of such Panel.

(2) The Chairman of a Panel of Conciliators may
resign office by letter addressed to the Minister of
Justice.

_ (8) The Minister of Justice may, without assigning
any reason, remove from office the Chairman of a Panel
‘of Conciliators.

| 5. (1) For the purpose of constituting a Concilia-
jtion Board for any village area, the Chairman of the
iPanel of Conciliators constituted for that village iarea

shall select from such Panel not less than three persons

(2) Where the Chairman of the Panel of Con
ciliators constituted for any village area is a membe!
of a Conciliation Board constituted for that village
area, then, he, or, where he is not a member of tha’
Board, then such member of that Board as may be

nominated by such Chairman, shall be the Presiden
of that Board.


,Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958 5 |

; ati:(3) Any number of Conciliation Boards may be
“onstituted in a village area for which a Panel of
‘Gonciliators has been constituted.

5. The Chairman of the Panel of Conciliators
gonstituted for any village area may, and shall upon
application made to him in that behalf, refer for
jnquiry .to Conciliation Boards constituted out of that
Panel the following disputes and offences : —

(az) any dispute in respect of any movable
property that is kept, or any immovable
property that is wholly or partly situate,
in that village area;

(b) any dispute in respect of any matter that may
be a cause of action arising in that village
area for the purpose of the institution of
an action in a civil court;

(c) any dispute in respect of a contract made in
that village area;

(2) such offences specified in the Schedule to this
Act as are alleged to have been committed
in that village area.

7. A Conciliation Board shall, in respect of any
dispute or offence referred to it for inquiry, have the
following powers :—

(a) to procure and receive all such written or oral
evidence, and to examine all such
witnesses, as the Board may think it
necessary or desirable to procure or
examine; :

(b) to require the written or oral evidence of ia
witness to be given on oath or affirmation,
such oath or affirmation to be that which
could be required of the witness if he were
giving evidence in a court of law, and to
administer or cause to be administered by
an officer authorised in that behalf by the
Board an oath or affirmation of such
witness; ;

(c) to summon any person residing in Ceylon to

: attend any meeting of the Board to give
evidence or produce any document or other
thing in his possession, and to examine him

‘t as a witness or require him to produce any

i" document or other thing in his possession ;

Civil disputes
and ofiences
that may be
referred to
Cenciliation
Boards.

Powers of a
Cenciliation
Board.


6 Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958 7

(2) notwithstanding any of the provisions of tf,
Evidence Ordinance, to admit any writt
or oral evidence which might be inadmy
sible in civil or criminal proceedings. ¢

SInROENOAIRE 8. (1) Every summons issued by a Conciliatig,
Board shall be under the hand of the President of th,
Board. Heh
|
(2) Any summons issued by a Conciliation Boar
may be served by delivering it to the person name
therein, or, if that is not practicable, by leaving jt
at the last known place of abode of that person.

(3) Every person on whom a summons issued by 4
Conciliation Board is served shall attend before the
Board at the time and place mentioned therein, and
shall give evidence or produce such documents or other
things as are required of him and are in his possession
or power, according to the tenor of the summons.

(4) If any person upon whom a summons issued by
a Conciliation Board is served—

(a) fails without cause, which in the opinion of!
the Board is reasonable, to appear before
the Board at the time and place men-
tioned in such summons, or af

(b) refuses to make an oath or affirmation as a
witness, or, having made such oath or
affirmation, refuses or fails without cause,
which in the opinion of the Board is
reasonable. to answer any question put to
him regarding the matters that are being
inquired into by the Board, or

(c) refuses or fails without cause, which in the
Opinion of the Board is reasonable, to
produce and show to the Board any
document or other thing which is in his
possession or power and which is in the
Opinion of the Board necessary for arriving
at the truth of the matters that are being
inquired into by the Board,

such person shall be guilty of an offence punishable
with a fine not exceeding one hundred rupees.

No stamp dusy 9. Nostamp duty shall be payable for any summons
oo issued by a Conciliation Board oS


340. Every summons issued by a Conciliation Board
yall be served by the Fiscal or by any police officer
specified therein.

Bt a
44. Every person who gives evidence before a
Gonciliation Board shall, in respect of such evidence,
be entitled to all the privileges to which a witness

giving evidence before a court of law is entitled in
respect of evidence given by him before such court.

di, |

=,42. (1) Where any dispute is referred to a
(Conciliation Board under this Act for inquiry, it shall
he the duty of the Board to summon the parties to
such dispute to appear before the Board and after
inquiring into such dispute make every effort to induce
such parties to settle such dispute, and, where such
arties agree to a settlement, record such settlement
and issue a copy thereof signed by the President of
the Board to each such party.

(2) Where any offence is referred to a Conciliation
Board under this Act for inquiry, it shall be the duty
of the Board to summon the alleged offender or
offenders and the party or parties against whom such
offence is alleged to have been committed to appear
before the Board and to inquire into the allegation of
such offence. If after such inquiry the Board is
satisfied that such offence has been committed, the
Board shall make every effort to induce such offender
or offenders and such party or parties to agree to
compound such offence, and, where such offender or
ofienders and such party or parties so agree, then—

(a) if such offence is an offence specified in Part I
of: the Schedule to this Act, the Board
shall make a record of the compounding of
such offence and issue a copy thereof signed
by the President of the Board to each such
offender and each such party, and

(b) if such offence is an offence specified in Part II
of the Schedule to this Act, the Board shall
make a written recommendation to the
Attorney-General that the Attorney-
General’s consent may be given to the
compounding of such offence.

18. Any party to a civil dispute which is settled
by a Conciliation Board in any village area may in
Writing notify to the Chairman of the Panel of
‘Conciliators constituted for such village area that,

Service of 7.
summons.

Privileges of
witnesses.

Duties of a
Conciliation
Board.

Repudiation of
settlement of a
civil dispute
made by &
Conciliation
Board.


Provision

in regard to °
institution

of certain
civil actions
or prosecution
for certain
offences.

8 Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10 of 1958

with efiect from such date as shall be specified in tha
notification, the settlement effected by such Board wij
he repudiated by him for the reasons stated in thy
notification, and, where such notification is made wit)
such reasons stated therein: such settlement shall ceasg
to be in force from the date specified in such
notification. %

‘
44. (1) Where a Panel of Conciliators has besa
constituted for any village area,— :

(a) no proceedings in respect of any dispute
referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
of section 6 shall be instituted in. or be
entertained by, a civil court unless the
person instituting such — proceedings
produces a certificate from the Chairman
of such Panel that such dispute has been
inquired into by a Conciliation Board and
it has not been possible to effect a settle.
ment of such dispute by the Board, or thata
settlement of such dispute made by a
Conciliation Board has been repudiated by
all or any of the parties to such settlement
in accordance with the provisions of
section 13;

(b) no prosecution for any such offence specified:
in Part I of the Schedule to this Act as is
alleged to have been committed in such
village area shall be instituted in, or be
entertained by, any court unless the person
instituting such prosecution produces a
certificate from the Chairman of such
Panel that the alleged offence has been
inquired into by a Conciliation Board and
has not been compounded; and

(c) no prosecution for any such offence specified
in Part II of the Schedule to this Act as 1s
alleged to have been committed in such
village area shall be instituted in, or be
entertained by, any court unless the person
instituting such prosecution produces @
certificate from the Chairman of such Panel
that the alleged offence has been inquired
into by a Conciliation Board and the Board
has or has not recommended to the
Attorney-General that the Attorney?!
General’s consent may be given to the/
compounding of such offence. 3:


Conciliation Boards Act, NO. LU Us, sav0 L

co 2) It shall be the duty of the Chairman of every
‘panel of Conciliators to issue the certificates required
- for the purposes of sub-section (1) upon application
‘nade to him in that behalf.

» obey

' +45. In computing the period of prescription in
| regard to any cause of action or offence, the time taken
‘py the proceedings before a Conciliation Board in
regard to that cause of action or offence or the time
during which a settlement made by a Conciliation
Board in regard to that cause of action has been in
force shall not be taken into consideration notwith-
standing anything to the contrary in any other written

law.

46. The members of a Conciliation Board shall,
go long as they are acting as such members, be deemed
to be public servants within the meaning of the Penal
Code, and every proceeding before such Board shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning
of that Code.

47, (1) The Minister of Justice may make
regulations to give effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

(2) No regulation made under sub-section (1) shall
have effect until it is approved by the Senate and the
House of Representatives and notice of such approval
is published in the Gazette.

!
t

18. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other

written law.

|
19. The Minister de Justice may, by Order
ovusied in the Gazette, amend the Schedule to this
Ct.

€

. 20. In this Act, the expression ‘‘ village area ”’
has the same meaning as in the Village Communities

Ordinance.
rae}

Prescription.

Members oi
Conciliation
Board deemed
to be public
servants, and
proceedings
before sucb
Board deemed
to be judicial
proceedings,
within the
meaning of the
Penal Code.

Regulations.

This Act to
prevail! over
other written
law.

Amendment of
the Schedule
to this Act.

Interpretation.


10 Conciliation Boards Act, No. 10'of 1958.-

SCHEDULE.
PART I
Offence. Section of Penal Coq
applicable.
1. Voluntarily causing hurt... ng 314
2. Voluntarily causing hurt on provocation... 325
3. Wrongful restraint — sill 332
4, Wrongful confinement ns = 333

5. Using criminal force otherwise than on grave
and sudden provocation ... sai 343

6. Assault or criminal force with intent to dis-
honour a person otherwise than on grave

and sudden provocation ... bee 346
7. Assaulting or using criminal force on grave

and sudden provocation ... zig 349
8. Committing mischief ati ws 409

9. Committing mischief and thereby causing

damage to the amount of fifty rupees... 410
10. Criminal trespass Fre sbi 433
11. House trespass vik ss 434
12. Defamation wie agit 480
18. Printing or engraving matter known to be

defamator y ims _. 481
14. Sale of printed or engraved substance contain-

ing defamatory matter ... rr 482
15. Intentional insult with intent to provoke a

breach of the peace int Eee 484

!
16. Criminal intimidation ons |... 486
Offence. Section of Cattle Trespass

Ordinance applicable.

17. Unlawful removal of any cattle from custody

of person entitled to Heep or detain such
cattle ... as <a 12a

18. Causing animals to trespass ... 13 and 13a


or any animal of the value of fifty rupees ...

Conciliation Boards Act, No, 10 of 1958 11
PART II
Offence. Section of Penal Code
applicable.
. Voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapon
or means ... ites ” 315
‘9. Voluntarily causing grievous hurt 316
. Voluntarily causing grievous hurt on provoca-
100, gy ma * a mie 326
. Causing hurt by an act which endangers life
or the personal safety of others “a 328
. Causing grievous hurt by an -act which
endangers life or the personal safety of
others a ss 329
. Mischief by killing or maiming any animal of
the value of ten rupees : 411
. Mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc.,
412
