PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BUDGETARY RELIEF ALLOWANCE OFWORKERS ACT, No. 36 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th October, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 21, 2005

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20051

[Certified on 18th October, 2005]

L.D.O. 17/2005.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT OF A BUDGETARY RELIEFALLOWANCE BY EMPLOYERS TO WORKERS AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Budgetary ReliefAllowance of Workers Act, No. 36 of 2005.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall be deemed for allpurposes to have come into operation on August 1, 2005.

2.(1) The Commissioner shall be the CompetentAuthority for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The Competent Authority may delegate to any officerof the Department of Labour any power, function or dutyconferred or imposed on, or assigned to, such authority bythis Act.

3.(1) With effect from August 1, 2005 every employerin any trade shall in respect of each month pay to everyworker employed by him, a Budgetary Relief Allowance(hereinafter referred to as the allowance), calculated on thefollowing basis :

(a)in the case of a worker whose monthly remunerationis rupees twenty thousand or below, the allowancepayable shall be one thousand rupees :

Provided however, that in the case of a workerwho for any reason other than the failure of theemployer to provide work for such worker, does notwork for the required number of days as prescribedby any written law or contract of employment, the

Short title.

CompetentAuthority.

Payment ofbudgetaryallowance.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20052

allowance payable to such worker shall be inproportion to the number of days he has workedduring such month but shall not exceed onethousand rupees ;

(b)in the case of a worker who is paid a daily rate, theallowance payable shall be a sum of forty rupees perday for each day he has worked during the month :

Provided however, the total allowance payablefor a month shall not exceed one thousand rupees ;and

(c)in the case of a worker who is employed on a piece-rate basis, the allowance payable in respect of a monthshall be not less than ten per centum of the wages orsalary payable to such worker for that month :

Provided however, the total allowance payablefor a month shall not exceed one thousand rupees.

(2) A worker whose wages or salary for a month exceedstwenty thousand rupees but does not exceed twenty onethousand rupees, shall in respect of each month be paid asallowance an amount equivalent to the difference betweentwenty one thousand rupees and the amount drawn by suchworker as wages or salary for that month.

(3) A worker who has received a wage or salary increaseduring the month of October 2004 or thereafter, shall beentitled to an allowance under subsection (1) taking intoconsideration the amount equivalent to the difference betweenone thousand rupees and the amount of such wage or salaryincrease.

(4) A worker who is covered by

(a)a Collective Agreement ; or

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20053

(b)an Order under subsection (2) of section 10 of theIndustrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131), extendingthe application of a Collective Agreement in respectof such worker,

shall not be entitled to an allowance under subsection (1).

(5) The Minister may, taking into consideration the relevanteconomic conditions prevailing in relation to any trade, deferby Order published in the Gazette, the operation of theprovisions of this section in relation to any trade specified insuch Order, to such date as may be specified therein :

Provided that, any deferment in terms of this subsectionshall not extend beyond a period of six months from the dateof the making of such Order.

4.Every worker who has been employed by anyemployer subject to the provisions of section 3, for so long ashe continues to be a worker of such employer, continue to beso employed on such terms and conditions relating to wagesor salary, allowances or other payments in money bywhatsoever name or designation as are not less favourablethan those which such worker had enjoyed on the dayimmediately prior to the date of the coming into operation ofthis Act.

5.(1) The employer of a worker in any trade shall fromand after the date of the coming into operation of this Act,maintain and keep in the premises in which that trade iscarried on, a register setting out

(a)the name of each worker employed by him ;

(b)the class of work performed by each workeremployed by him ;

(c)the amount paid to each such worker as allowancein accordance with the provisions of this Act.

Duty of theemployer tomaintain register.

Special provisionsregardingcontinuation ofemployment.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20054

(2) Every register maintained under subsection (1), shallbe preserved for a period of six years by the employer. Everyemployer shall when required by the Commissioner, producesuch register for inspection or furnish a true copy thereof orpermit a copy of such to be made.

6.The competent authority shall have power

(a)to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of theday or night at any place in which workers in anytrade are employed, for the purpose of examiningany register or for ascertaining whether theprovisions of this Act are being complied with ; or

(b)where no such register is available for examinationwhen he inspects such place, to require theproduction of such register on a specified later datefor examination at such place or at the office of suchauthority ; or

(c)to take copies of the whole or any part of any suchregister ; or

(d)to question any person whom he finds in such placeand whom he has reasonable cause to believe is anemployer of workers employed in any trade carriedon in such place ; or

(e)to direct, in writing, any employer of workersemployed in any trade to furnish him on or before aspecified date, with

(i)a return, relating to all workers employed byany such employer in any specified class ordescription of such workers and containingsuch other particulars as he may require forthe purposes of this Act ;

(ii)such information or explanation as he mayrequire in respect of particulars stated in anyreturn furnished by any such employer ; or

Powers ofcompetentauthority.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20055

(iii)a true copy of the whole or any part of anyregister maintained by any such employer.

7.Any person who

(a)fails to furnish the competent authority with suchassistance as is necessary for any entry or inspectionor for the exercise of his powers under section 6 ; or

(b)hinders or obstructs such authority in the exerciseof the powers conferred by that section ; or

(c)refuses to produce any register or furnish anyinformation which such authority requires him toproduce or furnish ; or

(d)makes or causes to be made in any register, any falsestatement or makes or causes or knowingly permitsto be produced, any register containing a falsestatement to such authority, knowing the same to befalse ; or

(e)furnishes any information to such authority actingunder the powers conferred by that section, knowingthe same to be false ; or

(f)fails to comply with any directions given by suchauthority under section 6, or who, when called uponto furnish a return under that section, knowingly,makes or furnishes, or causes to be made orfurnished, a return containing any false statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convictionbefore a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees or to imprisonment of either description for a term notexceeding six months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

8.The allowance payable to a worker under this Actshall be deemed for all purposes to include

(a)contributions to Employees Provident Fund,Employees Trust Fund and pension ;

Offences andpenalties.

Payment dueunder this Act toconstitute part of aworkers wages orsalary.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20056

(b)annual holiday remuneration ;

(c)overtime remuneration ;

(d)maternity benefit payments ; and

(e)gratuity,

and shall constitute part of the wages or salary of suchworker. Every employer of any such worker shall pay suchallowance within the period within which such employer isrequired by any written law to pay the wages or salary of suchworker.

9. (1) Any employer who fails to pay a sum required to bepaid to a worker under this Act shall be guilty of an offenceand shall be liable on conviction before a Magistrate to a finenot exceeding ten thousand rupees or to imprisonment ofeither description for a term not exceeding six months or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

(2) Upon conviction by the Magistrate of an employer forfailure to pay any sum required to be paid to a worker underthis Act, the Court shall, in addition to the penalty imposedfor such offence order such employer to pay such sum to suchworker within a period specified in the Order, and if the sumis not so paid, such sum shall be recovered by Order of Court,as if it were a fine imposed by the Court and paid to suchworker.

10.(1) Where an employer has been convicted for failureto pay any sum required to be paid to a worker of suchemployer under this Act, then, if a notice in the prescribedform of intention so to do has been served on the employer atany time before the date of commencement of the trial,evidence may be given of any failure on the part of theemployer to pay any sum in accordance with the provisionsof this Act to that worker or any other worker or workers atany time during the six years preceding the date on which

Failure to paysums due toworkers.

Recovery of sumsdue to workers incertain cases.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20057

Regulations.

the complaint was made to Court of the offence of which theemployer has been so convicted and, on proof of the failure,the Court may Order the employer to pay such sum as it maybe found by the Court to be due from him to such worker orworkers. Any sum ordered to be paid under this subsectionmay be recovered in the same manner as a fine imposed byCourt.

(2) In this section prescribed means prescribed byregulation made under section 11.

11.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofmatters for which regulations are authorized or required to bemade under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

collective agreement shall have the same meaning as inthe Industrial Disputes Act (Chapter 131) ;

Commissioner means the person for the time being holdingthe office of Commissioner of Labour and includesany person for the time being holding office as aDeputy Commissioner of Labour or as an AssistantCommissioner of Labour or as a Labour Officer ;

Interpretation.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20058

employer means any person who on his own behalfemploys, or on whose behalf any other personemploys, any worker in any trade and includes anyperson who on behalf of any other person employsany worker in any trade ;

trade includes any industry, business, undertaking,Government owned business undertaking,occupation, profession or calling, carried on,performed or exercised by an employer or worker,and any branch of, or any function or process in anytrade, but does not include any industry, business orundertaking which is carried on by any corporation,board or other body which was or is established byor under any written law where the Government holdsa majority of the share capital with funds or capitalwholly or partly provided by the Government byway of grant, loan or otherwise ;

wages or salary means any earnings including

(a)the contractual wage or salary of the workeror the wage prescribed by the relevant WagesBoard for the trade to which the workerbelongs ; and

(b)any amount payable to the worker under theInterim Devaluation Allowance of EmployeesAct, No. 40 of 1968.

worker means an employee, a person earning a dailywage, or a person employed in any capacity by anyemployer under a contract, written, expressed orimplied, to perform any work in any trade andincludes a worker whose salary or wages areregulated by any written law or otherwise and aworker employed on a piece-rate basis but does notinclude a domestic servant or an employerspersonal chauffeur.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 20059

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Budgetary Relief Allowance of WorkersAct, No. 36 of 200510

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.