PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 4.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of April 04, 2003

[Certified on 01st April, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

CITIZENSHIP (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 16 OF 2003

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20031

2H 0168205,650 (2002/09)

[Certified on 01st April, 2003]

L. D.O. 11/2002.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CITIZENSHIP ACT

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Citizenship (Amendment)Act, No. 16 of 2003.

2.Section 2 of the Citizenship Act (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) is hereby amended by therepeal of subsection (3) and the substitution therefor of thefollowing new subsection :

(3)Every person who has possessed of theaforesaid status is hereinafter referred to as a Citizen ofSri Lanka..

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution,for the words citizen of Ceylon by descent if at thetime of his birth his father is a citizen of Ceylon ofthe words citizen of Sri Lanka if at the time of hisbirth either of his parents is or was a citizen of SriLanka.; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution ,for the words citizen of Ceylon by descent if at thetime of his birth his father is a citizen of Ceylon ofthe words citizen of Sri Lanka if at the time of hisbirth either of his parents is or was a citizen of SriLanka.;

4.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 5 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 5A of that enactment :

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 2 ofChapter 349.

Short title.

Insertion ofsection 5A in theprincipalenactment.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20032

5A.(1) Any person who was born withinor outside Sri Lanka after the appointed datebut prior to the date of commencement of thisAct and

(a)whose mother only was at the time ofhis birth a citizen of Sri Lanka and heis over twenty two years of age ; or

(b)neither of whose parents was at thetime of his birth a citizen of Sri Lankabut at least one of his parentssubsequently becomes a citizen ofSri Lanka ; and

shall be eligible to obtain the status of a citizenof Sri Lanka in accordance with the succeedingprovisions of this section.

(2)A person referred to in subsection (1)who is a citizen of any other country and whodesires to acquire Sri Lankan citizenship andrenounce citizenship of that other country, maymake an application to the Mnister for adeclaration that he has acquired the status of acitizen of Sri Lanka if he renounces citizenshipof such other country, in accordance with thelaw in force in that behalf in that other countryand he is, and intends to continue to be ordinarilyresident in Sri Lanka, and the Minister maymake the declaration for which the applicationis made.

(3)A person referred to in subsection (1)who is a citizen of any other country and whodesires to acquire Sri Lankan citizenship and toalso retain citizenship of that other country, maymake an application to the Minister, for adeclaration to the effect that he has acquired thestatus of a citizen of Sri Lanka, notwithstandingthe fact that he is, and continues to be, a citizenof that other country, and the Minister may make

Eligibility ofpersons bornprior to thedate ofcommencementof this Act.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20033

the declaration for which the application ismade, if he is satisfied that the making of suchdeclaration would in all the circumstances ofthe case, be of benefit to Sri Lanka.

(4)When a declaration is made underthis section, the Minister shall specify thedate with effect from which such personshall have acquired the status of a citizen ofSri Lanka.

(5)The provisions of subsection (7) ofsection 19 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to aperson who has acquired the status of a citizenof Sri Lanka by virtue of the precedingprovisions of this section.

(6)The provisions of section 26 of theprincipal enactment relating to the payment offees, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to theapplication of a person under this section..

5.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 6 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 6A of that enactment :

6A. (1) Any person who is a citizen of SriLanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5,may if he so desires, apply to the Controller ofImmigration and Emigration for a Certificateof citizenship. The application shall besubstantially in the Form set out in Schedule Ahereto.

(2)The Controller shall upon beingsatisfied of the status of the applicant, issue tothe applicant, within sixty days of the receipt ofthe application, a Certificate, substantially in theForm set out in Schedule B hereto.

Insertion of newsection 6A in theprincipalenactment.

Issue ofCertificate ofcitizenship onapplicationmade.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20034

(3)Where such Certificate is to be issuedin relation to a minor child, the application forthe same may be made on behalf of such minorchild, by either parent.

(4)No person shall require the productionof a Certificate referred to in subsection (2) forany purpose and an affidavit shall be acceptedas prima facie evidence of the facts statedtherein.

6.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment ishereby amended by the substitution for the words father orfathers wherever such words appear in that section, of thewords father or mother or fathers or mothersrespectively.

8.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph(b) of that subsection ;

(b)by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection, for thewords whose father was a citizen of Ceylonby descent of the words, words either ofwhose parents was a citizen of Sri Lanka ;and

(c)by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (iii) ofparagraph (b) of that subsection, for the wordswhose father, having been a citizen of Ceylonby descent of the words either of whoseparents, having been a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal of section9 of the principalenactment.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20035

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) ofthat section.

9.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section.

10.Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

11.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

12.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionin the definition of the expression minor child, forthe words twenty one years of the words eighteenyears ; and

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words twenty one years of the wordseighteen years.

13.The following Schedule is hereby added immediatelyafter section 28 of the principal enactment :

SCHEDULE A[Section 6A]

APPLICATION FOR A CERTIFICATE OF CITIZENSHIP UNDER SECTION 6A OF THE CITIZENSHIP ACT [CHAPTER 349]

1. I being the applicant*/a parent* of a minorchild hereby apply for a certificate of citizenship for myself*/my childaforementioned,* in terms of section 6A of the Act.

2. I hereby declare that I am,*/my child aforementioned is* a citizen ofSri Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5 of the Act.

3. I set out below particulars relating to mayself*/my childaforementioned*.

delete whichever is inapplicable

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Repeal of section23 of the principalenactrment.

Repeal of section24 of the principalenactrment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Addition ofSchedules in theprincipalenactment.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20036

(a)Full Name :

(b)Address :

(c)Sex : Male/Female

(d)Date fo Birth :

(e)Place of Birth :

(f)If born outside Sri Lanka, place of registration of birth :

(g)Particulars of parents

FatherMotherName :Name :Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :Whether citizen of Sri Lanka :N.I.C. No. (if any) :N.I.C. No. (if any) :Residential Address :Residential Address :

DECLARATION

4. I declare that I am not/my child aforementioned is not, a citizen of anyother Country.

I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm/swear that theforegoing particulars are, to the best of my knowledge true.

Signature or thumb impression ofApplicant.

Date :

Affirmed*/sworn at this day of before me.

Signature of Justice of the Peace orCommissioner of Oaths.

Name and address of the Justice of thePeace or Commissioner of Oaths :

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20037

SCHEDULE B(Section 6A)

CERTIFICATE OF CITIZENSHIP OF SRI LANKA UNDERSECTION 6A OF THE CITIZENSHIP ACT [CHAPTER 349]

By virtue of the powers conferred on me by the provisions of section 6Aof the Act, I , Controller of Immigration and Emigration,do hereby certify that of (state name)(state address)is a citizen of Sri Lanka by virtue of the provisions of section 5 of the Act.

PARTICULARS RELATING TO CITIZEN

Name : Name of Parent(s) who is a citizen/who are citizens :(1) (2) Date and place of birth : Sex : Identity Card No. (if any) :

Date :Controller of Immigration and Emigration.

14.Where a person who was registered under paragraph(a) of subsection (2) of section 11, as a citizen of Sri Lankaprior to the date of commencement of this Act, acquires, byreason of the operation of the amendment made to section 5of the principal enactment, by section 2 of this Act, the statusof a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent, such person shall deemedto have become a citizen of Sri Lanka by descent, with effectfrom the date of the commencement of this Act.

15.In the event of an inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Registeredpersons deemed tobe citizens bydescent.

Citizenship (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20038

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.