Me wee

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MEDICAL (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 40 OF 1998

[Certified on 26th June, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part Ill of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 26, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRE LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO I

Price: Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 2.50


e2.

Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

[Certified on 26th June, 1998]
L. D.—O. 65/94.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE MEDICAL ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Medical (Amendment) Shor title.
Act, No. 40 of 1998.

2. Section 12 of the Medical Ordinance, (hereinafter Amendment of
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended _ section 12 of

; Chapter 105.
as follows :—

(1) by the substitution for the heading “the CEYLON
MEDICAL COUNCIL” of the heading “SRI
LANKA MEDICAL COUNCIL”.

(2

—

in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “the Sri Lanka Medical Council”
(hereinafter referred to as “the Medical Council”)
shall consist of the following members:—” of the
words ‘The Medical Councit shall be a body
corporate by the name and style of the “Sri Lanka
Medical Council” (hereinafter referred to as the
“Medical Council”) having perpetual succession,
and a common seal with power to sue and to be sued
in such name and to acquire and hold property
movable and immovable and shall consist of ’.

3. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :— section 20 of the
principal
(1) in paragraph (e) thereof by the substitution for the enactment.
words “in Sri Lanka; and” of the words “in
Sri Lanka ;”;

(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (e)
thereof of the following new paragraph :—

“(ee) a register of persons quatified to practise

as a member of a profession supplementary to
medicine ; and”

2—D 048913—8,550 (04/98)


2 Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

Amendment of 4. Section 41 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 41 ofthe = amended as follows :—

principal

enactment.

(1) in subsection (1) of that section, by the insertion
immediately after paragraph (ccc) of that section, of
the following paragraph :—

“(cccc) Any estate apothecary who is registered
under subsection (288) of this section as being
entitled to practise medicine and surgery and whose
name is for the time being in the register maintained
under that subsection ;”;

(2

—_

in subsection (2A) of that section by the substitution,
for the words “aggregate period of at least fifteen
years”, wherever those words occur in that
subsection, of the words “aggregate period of at least
eight years”;

(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2B)
of that section of the following subsection :—

“(2BB) (a) any estate apothecary, whether he is
employed in an estate or a group of estates or has
ceased to be so employed may on furnishing proof
to the satisfaction of the Director-General of Health
Services that he—

(i) has had an aggregate period of four years of
efficient and satisfactory service as an estate
apothecary ;

(ii) has, within that period served in one or more
hospitals under one or more medical
practitioners for an aggregate period of at least
three years ; and

(iii) holds a diploma conferred by the College
Council,

be registered by the registrar on payment of the
prescribed fee as being entitled to practice medicine
and surgery.


Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998 3

(b) the registrar shall maintain a register
of persons registered under this subsection and
Shall erase therefrom the nate of any person
ordered to be erased by the Medical Council
under subsection (3) of this section ”;

(4) in subsection (3) of that section—

(a) by the subst ‘ition, for the words “subsection
(1) (ce) or ary estate dispenser” of the words
“subsection (i) (cc) or under subsection (1)
(cecc) or any estate dispenser ”; and

(b

—

by the substitution, for the words
“subsection(2B) or an Order”, of the words
“subsection (2B) or subsection (2BB) or an
Order”.

5. Section 60a of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the repeal of
paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) thereof.

6. Section 60B of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsections (a), (6), (c) and (d)
thereof.

7. . The following new Part is hereby inserted immediately
after Part VIHa and shall have effect as Part VIIIAa of the
principal enactment:

“PART VITIAA

PROFESSIONS SUPPLEMENTARY TO MEDICINE

Register of 60F. The register of persons registered as
members | members of a profession supplementary to
professions

supplementary Medicine under paragraph (ee) of subsection (1)
tomedicine. of section 20 shall consist of several parts as
follows:—

(a) Part A shall contain the names of ail
persons admitted to the register as
radiographers ;

Amendment of
section 60a
of the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 608 of the
principal
enactinent.

Insertion of new
Part VIilaa in the
Principal
enactment.


4 Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

Qualification
for admission
to register of
members of
professions
supplementary
to medicine.

(6) Part B shall contain the names of all
persons admitted to the register as
medical laboratory technologists;

Part C shall contain the names of all
persons admitted to the register as
Physiotherapists;

{c

~—

(d) Part D shall contain the names of all
persons admitted to the register as
Occupational Therapists;

(2) The fee for registration , as a member of
a profession supplementary to medicine shall
be payable to the Registrar on application for
registration.

60c. (1) (a) A person shall be qualified to be
admitted to the register of members of a
profession supplementary to medicine as a
Radiographer, if he is of good character and
holds a certificate of proficiency as a
Radiographer issued by the College Council.

(b) A person shall be qualified to be admitted
to the register of members of a profession
supplementary to medicine as a medical
laboratory technologist, if he is of good
character and holds a certificate of proficiency
as a medical laboratory technologist issued by
the College Council.

(c) A person shall be qualified to be admitted
to the register of members of a profession
supplementary to medicine as a Physiotherapist,
if he is of good character and holds a certificate
of proficiency as a Physiotherapist issued by
the College Council.


Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998 5

When a
member's
name be
erased from
Tegister.

(d) A person shall be qualified to be admitted
to the register of members of a profession
supplementary to medicine as an Occupational
Therapist, if he is of good character and holds a
certificate of proficiency as an Occupational
Therapist issued bv the College Council.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in subsection
(1), a person admitted to the register of
Paramedical Assistants, as a radiographer,
medical laboratory technologist, physiotherapist
or an occupational therapist, as the case may
be, and whose registration is in force on the day
preceding the date on which this section comes
into operation, shall, with effect from the date
on which this section has come into operation,
be deemed to be admitted to the register of
members of a profession supplementary to
medicine as a radiographer, medical laboratory
technologist, physiotherapist or occupational
therapist, as the case may be.

60x. The name of any person registered under
this Ordinance as a member of a profession
supplementary to medicine, may be erased from
the register of members of a profession
supplementary to medicine, if—

(a) he is deprived of any certificate on the
faith of which he was registered as a
member of a profession supplementary
to medicine; or

(6) he is convicted of an offence which
shows him to be unfit to practice as a
member of a profession supplementary
to medicine; or

(c) he shows such negligence or incapacity
as a member of a_ profession
supplementary to medicine that he
cannot safely be allowed to pratice as
such ; or


Amendment of
section 68 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
section 69a in the
principal
enactment.

6 Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

(d) he is guilty of infamous conduct in any
professional respect.

Unlawful 60). (1) No person, rot being a registered
pretence tobe member of a profession supplementary to
amemberof medicine, shall use any name, title or description
profession implying that he is registered under this
supplementary Ordinance as a registered member of a
profession supplementary to medicine.

(2) No person whose name is included in
any part of the register of members of a
profession supplementary to medicine shall use
any name, ttle or description or otherwise do
any act of any kind implying that the name of
such person is included in some other part of
that register in which it is not in fact so included.

Restriction on 60k. No person not being a registered
practice asa = inember of profession supplementary to
member of medicine, shall practice for gain, or profess to
profession practice, or publish his name as practising, as a
Supplementary member of a profession supplementary to
to medicine. Legg

medicine.”.

8. Section 68 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “not exceeding
five thousand rupees”, of the words “not fess than five
thousand rupees and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees and
to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding
six months and in the case of a second or subsequent offence
to a fine not less than ten thousand rupees and not exceeding
one hundred thousand rupees and to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding twelve months.”.

9. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 69 and shall have effect as section
69a of the principal enactment :—

“Forfeiture. 69a (1) On the conviction of any person for
an offence under this Ordinance, the Court may
order that any article or substance in connection
with which the offence was committed, or used
in, or in connection with the commission of such
offence shall be forfeited to the State.


Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998 7

(2) Any property forfeited to the State by an
order made under subsection (1), shall vest
absolutely in the State. Such vesting shall take
effeci—

(a) where no appcal is preferred to a High
Court established under Article 154P of
the Constitution against the order of
forfeiture, on the expiration of the period
within which an appeal may be preferred
to such High Court against such order
of forfeiture ;

(b

—

where an appeal has been preferred, to
a High Court against such order of
forfeiture, and no appeal is preferred to
the Supreme Court against the order of
the High Court affirming or upholding
such order of forfeiture, on the
expiration of the period within which an
appeal may be preferred to the Supreme
Court from such order of the High
Court;

(ce

—

where an appeal has been preferred to
the Supreme Court against such order
of forfeiture upon the determination of
the Supreme Court affirming or
upholding the order of forfeiture.”.

10. Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of the

amended by the omission therefrom of — Fifth Schedule to
the principal

(1) the declaration under the heading “Where the  cnactment.
applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as a
-Radiographer issued by the College Council ;”

(2) the declaration under the heading “where the
applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as a
Medical Laboratory Technologist issued by the
College Council” ;


Addition of a new
Schedule to the
principal
enactment,

8 Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

(3) the declaration under heading “where the applicant
holds a certificate of proficiency as a Physiotherapist
issued by the College Council” ;

(4) the declaration under the heading “where the
applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as an
Occupational Therapist issued by the College
Council ”.

Il. The principal enactment is hereby amended by the
addition at the end thereof of the following new Schedule :-—

“SEVENTH SCHEDULE

Declaration for registration as a member of a profession
supplementary to medicine.

Where applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as a
Radiographer issued by the College Council.

I (name and address of applicant) hereby declare as
follows :—

I am the person named (name) in the certificate of
proficiency as a Radiographer issued by the College Council
now produced and shown to me and marked A.

(Signature of applicant.)

Dated this day of

Declared before me this day of

(Signature of person Justice of the Peace or

taking the declaration). Commissioner for
Oaths.

Where applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as a
Medical Laboratory technologist issued by the College
Council,


Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998 9

} (name and address of applicant) hereby declare as
follows :—

[ am the person named (name) in the certificate of
proficiency as a Medical Laboratory technologist issued by

the College Council now produced and shown to me and
marked A.

(Signature of applicant.)

Dated this day of

Declared before me this day of

(Signature of person Justice of the Peace or

taking the declaration). Commissioner for
Oaths.

Where applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as a
Physiotherapist issued by the College Council.

I (name and address of applicant) hereby declare as
follows :—

I am the person named (name) in the certificate of

proficiency as a Physiotherapist issued by the College Council
now produced and shown to me and marked A.

(Signature of applicant.)

Dated this day of

Declared before me this day ot

(Signature of person Justice of the Peace or

taking the declaration). Commissioner for
Oaths.

Where applicant holds a certificate of proficiency as an
occupational therapist issued by the College Council.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

10 Medical (Amendment) Act, No. 40 of 1998

I (name and address of applicant) hereby declare as
follows :—

1 am the person named (name) in the certificate of
proficiency as an occupational therapist issued by the College

Council now produced and shown to me and marked A.

(Signature of applicant.)

Date this day of

Declared before me this day of

(Signature of person Justice of the Peace or
taking the declaration). Commissioner for

Oaths.”.

12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusLicaTions Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

RA Were
