PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 28, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

PREVENTION OF FRAUDS (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 30 OF 2022

1 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2022

Short title

L.D.O. 71/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PREVENTION OF FRAUDS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 70)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Prevention of Frauds(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2022.

2. Section 2 of the Prevention of Frauds Ordinance(Chapter 70) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the repeal of all the wordsfrom shall be of force to the end of that section and thesubstitution therefore of the following:-

shall be in force or avail in law unless

(a) the relevant deed or instrument shall be inwriting, signed by every executant andattested by a notary public before twowitnesses present at the same time; and

(b) the left or right thumb impression of everysuch executant or where both thumbs ofsuch executant are missing, the impressionof any other finger or the toe impression asthe case may be, is affixed above or besidesthe signature to the original, duplicate andthe protocol of the relevant deed orinstrument:

Amendment ofsection 2 ofChapter 70

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

2 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2022

Provided however, in the event thesignature or the thumb impression of anysuch executant cannot be obtained due toany reason, the notary public shall statesuch reason in the attestation, and suchexecutant shall affix any other fingerimpression or toe impression, as the casemay be.;

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1);

(2) by the repeal of all the words from in the mannerhereinafter mentioned; to the end of renumberedsubsection (1) of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the words subject to the provisionsspecified in subsection (2);

(3) by the addition immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section, the following new subsection: -

(2) The testator shall

(a) sign; and

(b) affix his left or right thumb impression,

at the foot or end of the will, testament or codicilreferred to in subsection (1), before a notary publicand two witnesses who shall be present at the sametime:

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

3 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2022

Provided however, in the event the thumbimpression of the testator cannot be obtained dueto any reason, he shall affix any other fingerimpression or the toe impression, as the case maybe.

4.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the substitution for the words signature of thetestator or testatrix, of the words signature and theleft or right thumb impression or any other fingerimpression or the toe impression as the case may be,of the testator ;

(2) by the insertion immediately after that section of thefollowing proviso:-

Provided however that, in the event the signatureor left or right thumb impression or any other fingerimpression as the case may be, of the testator cannotbe obtained due to any reason, the testator shall affixhis toe impression and the notary public shall statesuch reason in his attestation..

5.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1) by the substitution for the word duplicate. of theword triplicate.; and

(2) by the repeal of the marginal note thereof and thesubstitution therefore of the following: -

Deeds to be executed in Triplicate

6.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendment tosection 16 ofthe principalenactment

Sinhala text toprevail in thecase ofinconsistency

Amendment tosection 7 of theprincipalenactment

4 Prevention of Frauds (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.