PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MEDIATION BOARDS
ACT, No. 72 OF 1988

[ Certified on 17th December, 1988 ]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part IJ of the
Gazette of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of
December 23, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : Rs, 1.20 | Postage ; 75 cente,


Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988
[Certified on 17th December, 1988]

L.D.—-O. 3/86

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF MEDIATION

Boarps IN AREAS TO BE SPECIFIED BY THE MINISTER; TO

DEFINE THE POWERS AND DUTIES OF SUCH BOARDS, AND TO

MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Mediation Boards Act,
No. 72 of 1988.

2. (1) The President shall appoint a Commission consist-
ing of five persons (hereinafter referred to as the “ Com-
mission’) three of whom at least shall be from among per-
sons who have held judicial office in the Supreme Court or
the Court of Appeal. The President shall nominate as Chair-
man of the Commission one of the three members who have
held judicial office as aforesaid.

(2) The Chairman and Commissioners shall hold office
for a period of three years unless any one of them earlier
dies, resigns or is removed from office :

Provided however, that, if at the expiration of the period
of office of the Chairman or the Commissioners the new
members of the Commission have not been appointed, the
Chairman and Commissioners holding office on the day
immediately prior to such expiration, shali continue in office
until the new members are appointed.

(83) The Chairman or any Commissioner vacating office
upon the expiration of his term of office shall be eligible for
re-appointment,

(4) (a) The Chairman or any Commissioner may resign
office by letter addressed to the President.

(b) The President may without assigning a reason
remove the Chairman or any Commissioner from office.

(5) The Chairman or any Commissioner who has resigned
or has been removed from office shall not be eligible for re-
appointment,

(6) (a) Where any vacancy arises in the Commission, by
reason of death, resignation or removal of the Chairman or
any Commissioner, the President shall fill such vacancy
having regard to the provisions of subsection (1).

Short
title.

Appoint-
ment of
Commission,


Powers and
duties of |
Commission,

Mediation
Board
Areas.

Appointment
of Panel of
Mediaters.

2 Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988

(b) Any person appointed to fill a vacancy arising from
the death, resignation or removal of the Chairman or any
Commissioner shall hold office for the unexpired period of
the term of office of his predecessor.

(7) Where a Commissioner becomes, by reason of illness
or other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the President may
appoint a fit person to act in his place for the period of such
incapacity or absence, and where the Commissioner who is
so incapacitated or absent from Sri Lanka is the Chairman
of the Commission, the President shall appoint another
Commissioner.who has previously held judicial office to act
in his place until the resumption of duties by the Chairman
of the Commission.

(8) The Chairman and the Commissioners shali be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(¢) Three members of the Commission shall constitute
the quorum for any meeting of the Commission and the
Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Commission.
The Commission may regulate its own procedure in regard
to meetings of such Commission and the transaction of
business at such meetings.

(10) No act or proceeding of the Commission shall be

_ deemed invalid by reason only of any defect in the appoint-

ment of the Chairman or any Commissioner.

3. The Commission shall—
(a) appoint, transfer, dismiss and exercise disciplinary
control over Mediators for the purposes of this
Act ; |
(b) supervise and control the performance and discharge
by Mediators of their duties and functions under
this Act ;
(ce) issue such directions as may be necessary to suc
Mediators.

4, The Minister shall from time to time, by Order
published in the Gazette, specify each area (hereinafter
referred to as a ‘‘Mediation Board area”) to which the
provisions of this Act shall apply.

’ 5. (1) Upon the publication of an Order under section
4 in respect of a Mediation Board area, the Commission shall
take all such steps as are necessaary to appoint 4 Chairman


Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988 3

and a Panel of Mediatiors to such area from among the
persons referred to in subsection (2), in accordance with the
procedure set out in the First Schedule to this Act.

(2) The persons who shall be eligible for appointment to
any Panel of Mediators are—

(a) any person resident in a Mediation Board area or
engaged in any work in that area;

(b) any person resident or engaged in any work out-side
such Mediation Board area if the Commission so
decides, in exceptional circumstances ; and

(c) any public officer nominated by the Government
Agent of the administrative district within which
such Mediation Board area is situated :

Provided however that an officer nominated
under this paragraph shall be eligible for appoint-
ment to the Panel appointed for every Mediation
Board area within that administrative district.

6. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) any Jurisdiction
person may make an application to the Chairman of the ob Mer ation
Panel of any Mediation Board area, for settlement by
mediation of any dispute, arising wholly or partly within
that Mediation Board area, or any offence specified in the
Second Schedule to this Act and alleged to have been com-
mitted within that Mediation Board area:

Provided that where the dispute is—

(a) in relation to movable or immovable porperty, the
application shall be made to the Chairman of the
Panel appointed for the Mediation Board area
within which such movable property is kept or
immovable property is situated :

(b) in relation to a contract, the application shall be made
to the Chairman of the Panel appointed for the
Mediation Board area within which such contract
was made; and

(c) in relation to a matter which constitutes a cause of
action in a court of law, the application shall be
made to the Chairman of the panel appointed for
the Mediation Board area within the territorial
limits of the court having jurisdiction in respect
of such action.

(2) No application made under subsection (1) shall be
entertained by the Chairman of a Panel, if one of the
disputants is— |

(a) the state; or


Actions
other than
those
involving
the grant
of any
provisional

remedy not

to be filed
without
certificates
of non-
settlement.

4 Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988

(b) a public officer acting in his capacity as such officer,
where the dispute relates to the recovery of any
property, money or other dues ; or

(c) the Attorney-General, where the offence is an offence
in respect which proceedings are instituted by the
Attorney General.

(3) Every application shall be accompanied by a docu-
ment evidencing the fact that the prescribed fee has been
paid in the prescribed manner.

7. (1) Where a Panel has been appointed for a Mediation
Board area, subject to the provisions of subsection (2), no
proceeding in respect of any dispute arising wnolly or partly
within that area or an offence alleged to have been committ-
ed within that area shall be instituted in, or be entertained
by any court of first instance if—

(a) the dispute is in relation to movable or immovable
property or a deLt, damage or demand, which does
not exceed twenty-five thousand rupees in value ;
or

(b) the dispute gives rise to a cause of action in a court
not being an acticn specified in the Third Schedule
to this Act ; or

(c) the offence is an offence specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act,

unless the person instituting such action produces the cer-
tificate of non-settlement referred to in section 12 or section
14 (2):

Provided however that where the relief prayed for in an
action in respect of any such dispute includes a prayer for
the grant of any provisional remedy under Part V of the
Civil Procedure Code, or where a disputant to any dispute
in respect of which an application has been made under
section 6 subsequently institutes an action in any court in
respect of that dispute including a prayer for a provisional
remedy under Part V of the Civil Procedure Code, the court
may entertain and determine such action in so far as it
relates only to the grant of such provisional remedy. After
such determination, the court shall—

(a) where no application has been made under section 6,
in respect of the dispute constituting the cause of
action before it, refer such dispute to the Chairman
cf the appropriate Panel for mediation ; and


Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988 5

(b) where an application has been made under section 6,
in respect of that dispute, direct the Chairman, of
the appropriate Panel where a Board has not yet
been constituted, or the appropriate Board, as the
case may be, to continue mediation in respect of
that dispute. .

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) of this section shall apply
to any civil procedings in respect of a dispute, where one of
the disputants is the state or in respect of a dispute relating
to the recovery of any property, money or other dues by a
public offirer acting in his capacity as such officer or to an
offence in respect of which proceedings are instituted by the
Attorney-General.

8. Where an action is field in any civil court having
jurisdiction over a Mediation Board area, in respect of any
dispute, the court may, with the written consent of the
parties, refer the dispute to the Chairman of the Panel
appointed for that area, for settlement by mediation.

- 9. (1) The Chairman of a Panel appointed for a Media-
tion Board area shall, upon receipt of an application under
section 6 or upon a reference made to him under section 7
or 8, constitute a Mediation Board (hereinafter referred to
as the “ Board”) of three members consisting of—

(a) one member selected by each disputant; and
(b) one member selected by the members selected under
paragraph (a),

from the Panel appointed for that Mediation Board area:

Provided however, that where the disputants referred to
in paragraph (a) or the members referred to in paragraph
(b) are unable to agree as to their respective selections the
Chairman of the Panel shall make the necessary selection.

(2) The member selected under paragraph (b) of sub-
section (1) shall act as the Chief Mediator of the Board
(hereinafter referred to as the “Chief Mediator”) :

Provided however that where the Chairman of the Panel
is selected as a member of the Board, the Chairman shall
act as the Chief Mediator.

' (3) Upon the constitution of the Board, the Chairman of
the Panel shall refer the dispute or offence in respect of
which the application or reference has been made to such
Board for settlement by mediation.

Reference
by court.

Constitution
of

Mediation
Board.


6 Mediation Bocrds Act, No. 72 of 1988

Duties of 10. Where any dispute or offence is referred to any Board
a under subsection (3) of section 9 it shall be the duty of such

Board by all lawful means to endeavour to bring the dispu-

tants to an amicable settlement and to remove, with their

consent and wherever practicable, the real cause of

grievence between them so as to prevent a recurrence of

the dispute, or offence and for this purpose shall—

- (a) notify the disputants and such other persons as the
Board may consider necessary to be present at a

mediation conference either, together or mnatyis
dually, at a specified time and place ;

(b) require any person notified to be present to bring
to any such conference any witnesses or documents
which may assist the disputants in arriving at a
settlement ;

(c) convene as many such mediation conferences as may
be necessary to arrive at a settlement ;

(d) complete its proceedings within the time limit speci-
fied in section 13 and in the event of failure to do so,
issue a certificate of non-settlement in the prescribed
form signied by the Chief Mediator stating that it
has not been possible to settle such dispute or

offence.
Where 1J. (1) Where the disputants agree to a settlement, the
nett erent terms of the settlement shall be reduced to writing and be
signed by the Chief Mediator and the disputants, and the
Board shall—

(a) where the settlement is in respect of any dispute or
offence brought before the Board by an application
made under section 6, issue immediately, a copy
thereof to each of the disputants; and

(b) where the settlement is in respect of any dispute re-
ferred by court under section 7 or 8, forward to
court a copy thereof.

(2) Where a copy of the settlement is forwarded to court
under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) the court shall, after
notice to the disputants, enter a decree in accordance with
such settlement.


ee

Mediation Boards Act, No. 27 of 1988 7

12, Where the disputants do not agree to a settlement,
the Board shall—

(a) in the case of a dispute or offence referred ‘to the
Board upon application made under section 6 issue
a certificate of non-settlement in the prescribed
form signed by the Chief Mediator stating that such
dispute or offence has been referred to such Board
and that it is not possible to settle the dispute or
offence by Mediation ; or

(b) in the case of a dispute referred by any court for
settlement under section 7 or 8, report to such court
in the prescribed form signed by the Chief Mediator
that it is not possible to settle the dispute by media-
tion.

13. The Board shall, in respect of every dispute or offence
before it for settlement by mediation, take the steps speci-
fied in subsection (1) of section 11 or in section 12 within
thirty days of the constitution of the Board.

14, (1) Where any dispute or offence referred to a Media-
tion Board in pursuance of any application made under sec-
tion 6 is settled and one of the disputants fails to comply
with, or violates the terms of the settlement at any time, the
other party shall forthwith report such failure or violation
to the Board.

(2) The Board shall, upon receipt of a report under sub-
section (1), notify the disputants and such other persons as
are considered necessary to be present at a specified time
and place and shall endeavour to resolve any differences
that may have arisen between them and shall assist them to
enter into a ‘fresh settlement. Where, the resolution of such
differences is not possible, the Board shall issue a certificate
of non-settlement, in the prescribed form, signed by the
Chief Mediator, stating that it has not been possible to settle
such dispute or offence.

15. No Attorney-at-law, agent or other person shall be
entitled or be permitted to appear on behalf of any disputant
in any matter before a Board:

Provided however, that representation before a Board—

(a) of one spouse by another spouse ; or |
(b) of a minor or other person under any disability, by
his parent, guardian or curator,
Shall be permitted.

Where no
settlement
is possible.

Time limit
within
which
Board
must act.

Failure to
comply
with or
violation
of settle-
ments.

Representa~
tion.


Privileges
of witnesses.

Prescription.

Offence
settled by a
Mediation
Board
deemed to be
compounded.

Grama Seva
Niladhari to
assist the
Board.

Members of
Board
deemed to be
public
servants. .

Board
deemed
tobea
Scheduled
Institution.

8 Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of. 1988

16. (1) Every person who makes a statement before a
Mediation Board shall in respect of such statement be
entitled to all the privileges which a witness giving evidence
before a court of law is entitled to in respect of such
evidence. —

(2) No statement made by any person before a Mediation
Board shall be admissible in evidence in any civil or
criminal proceedings.

17. In computing the period of prescription in regard to
any cause of action or offence, the period commencing on
the date on which an application is made to the Chairman
of a Panel of Mediators in respect of the dispute constitu-
ting such cause of action or such offence, as the case may
be, and ending on the date of the certificate issued under
section 12 or subsection (2) of section 14 in respect of that
dispute or offence, shall be disregarded, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in any other written law.

18. Where any offence specified in the Second Schedule
to this Act is settled by a Mediation Board such offence
shall be deemed to have been compounded within the
meaning, and for the purpose, of paragraph (a) of subsection
(4) of section 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979.

19. Any Board may, in carrying out its duties under
paragraph (a) of section 10 and subsection (2) of section 14
require the assistance of any Grama Seva Niladhari
appointed for a Grama Seva Niladhari’s division within the
Mediation Board area, to communicate any notification to
a disputant or other person, and such Grama Seva Nila-
dhari shall when so required, render all such assistance as’
may be necessary in that regard to such Board.

20. The members of every Board constituted under this
Act shall, so long as they are acting as such members, be
deemed to be public servants within the meaning of the
Penal Code, and every proceeding before such Board shall
be deemed to be a judicial proceeding within the meaning
of that Code.

21. Every Board constituted under this Act shall be
deemed to be a Schedule institution within the meaning

of the Bribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed accordingly.


Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988 9

22. No act or proceeding of a Board shall be deemed to
be invalid by reason only of a defect in the constitution of
the Board.

23. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect
of any matter in respect of which regulations are autho-
rized by this Act to be made or required by this Act to be
prescribed.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may
. he specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette

be brcught before Parliament for approval and any regu-

lation which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but without
prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation
shall be deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the
Gazette.

24. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires
“disputant””? means any party to a dispute or any person
involved in the commission of an alleged offence or any
person against whom any offence is alleged to have been
committed.

FIRST SCHEDULE
APPOINTMENT OF PANEL OF MepraTors (SECTION 5 (1) )

1. Where a Panel is to be appointed for a Mediation Board
area or whenever the need arises for the purpose of making any
additional appointments or for the filling of any vacancies, the
Commission shsll publish a notice calling for nominations of
persons from such persons, bodies or organisations, or institutions,
not of a political nature, as may be determined by the Minister
on the recommendation of the Commission, and from the
Government Agent of the administrative district within which
such Mediation Board area is situated.

2. TIpon publication of a notice under item (1) every such
person, body, organisation or institution and the Government
Agent shall submit to the Commission the names and other
barticulars of eligible persons, who in his or its opinion, are

suitable for appointment to the Panel, together with a recommen-
Gation,

Defect in
constitution
of Board
not to
invalidate
acts and
proceedings
of Board.

Regulations.

Interpreta-
tion.


10 Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988

3. Upon receipt of the recommendation from a person, hody,
organisation, institution or the Government Agent, the Commission
shall select such eligible persons as are in its view, suitable to
follow a preliminary training course in mediation skills and

techniques.

4. On completion of the preliminary training referred to in
item 3 the person or persons conducting the course shall submit
to the Commission, a report in respect of each of the trainees.
Such report shsll comment on the aptitude, knowledge and skills
oz such trainee to function as a Mediator,

5. Upon receipt of the reports referred to in item 4, the
Commission shall, after consideration of such reports, appoint for
every Mediation Board area—

(1) a Panel of Mediators of not less than twelve persons of
whom not more than five may be public officers nomina-
ted by the Government Agent of the administrative dis.
trict within which such Mediation Board area is situated ;

(2) such number of additional members to any such Panel as
may be considered necessary from time to time ;

(3) such number of members as may be required to fill any
vacancies in the Panel.

6. The Commission shall appoint one of the members of the
Panel of Mediators to be the Chairman of such Panel.

". Of the members first appointed to the Panel, (other than
the Chairman) one third the number shall vacate office at the
end of the first year and one-third the number at the end of the
second year. Where one-third the number of members is an
integer and fraction the integer immediately higher to that
integer and fraction shall be deemed to be the one-third for the
purpose of this taragraph. The determination of the members
to vacate office at the end of each such year shall be made by
jot drawn by the Chairman of the Panel, who shall communicate
such cetermination to the Commission. The remaining members
shall vacate oftice at the end of the third year.

8. The Commission may make such appointments as are
necessary to fill the vacancies occuring at the end of each year
referred to in item 7 and every person so appointed shall there-
after hold office for a period of three years.

9. (1) Where the Chairman or any member vacating office
under item 7 or on the expiration of his term of office is on the
date of his vacation of office, inquring into any matter, his
vacation of office shall take effect on the date on which he com-
pletes such inquiry.

(2) Where for any reason, no person is appointed to succeed
a member vacating office, the outgoing member shall notwith-
standing his vacating office, continue as a member of the Panel
until the appointment of his successor or until the Commission
determines otherwise, )


Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988 1

(3) The Chairman or any member of the Panel vacating his
office upon the expiration of his term of office shall be eligible
for re-appointment.

10. (1) The Chairman or any member may—
(a) resign his office by letter addressed to the Commission ;

(b) be removed from office by the Commission without
assigning a reason.

(2) The Chairman or any member who has resigned or has
been removed from office shall not be eligible for re-appoint-
ment.

‘

11. If the Chairman or any member vacates his office,
otherwise than by the expiration of his term of office, the
Commission shall, in the case of a Chairman and may, in tbe
case of a member appoint in his place, any other eligible person
to hold office for the unexpired period of the term of office of
his predecessor.

12. The Chairman or a member shall not be entitled to any
remuneration in respect of any functions discharged by him under
this Act.

SECOND SCHEDULE [Section 7 (1}(c)J
Column I Colunn IT
Offence Sections of Panal
Code applicable
Affray a . “7s “159
Voluntarily causing hurt ss oe 314,315,326
Voluntarily causing grievous hurt or grievous hurt
on provocation ts ~ sta 316,326
Causing hurt by an act which endangers life oe $23
Causing grievous hurt by an act which endangers life
or the personal safety of others ee oe 329
Wrongfully restraining or confining any person a 332,333
Assualt or use of criminal force as +. 343,346,348,349
Dishonest misapppropiration of property where the logs is
to a private person .. are es 386
Mischief, when the only loss or damage caused is to &
private person ee ati vs 409,410
Mischief by killing or maiming any animal of the value
of ton rupees where the loss is to a private person .. 411
Mischief by killing or maiming cattle &c. where the lose i is
to a private person es . 412
Criminal trespass ste ats “s 433
House Trespass os os rs 434
Defamation - we - 480
Painting or engreving matter knowing it to be defamatory 481
Sale of printed or engraved substances containing defama-
tory matter, knowing it to contain such mattor re 482
Insult intended to prevoke breach ofthe peace. ee 484
486

Crimnialintimidation .. ee oe


12 Mediation Boards Act, No. 27 of 1988

THIRD SCHEDULE [Section 7 (1) (b)]
1. Actions relating to matrimonial disputes.

2. Actions relating to the persons and estates of persons of
unsound mind, minors and wards.

3. Actions relating to guardians, curators and receivers.
4. Actions relating to trusts.

5. Actions relating to applications for adoption made under the
Adoption of Childrens’ Ordinance.

6. Actions relating to applications made under the Registration
of Births and Deaths Ordinance,

%, Partition actions.

8 Testamentary actions.

9, Actions under the Insolvancy Ordinance,

10. Admiralty actions.

11. Actions relating to Election Petitions.

12. Actions relating to applications under Article 126 of the
Constitution,

13. Actions relating to applications which were pending before
the Debt Conciliation Board on the date of commencement of this
Act or which have finally been dealt with by the Debt Consilia-
tion Board by settlement or dismissal of the application.

14, Actions under the Mortgage Act.

15. Actions relating to breaches of the privileges of Parlia-
ment.
