PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BIRTHS AND DEATHS REGISTRATION(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 25 OF 2013

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th May, 2013]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 10, 2013

1Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2013

2PL0070814,090 (03/2013)

[Certified on 08th May, 2013]

L.D.O. 17/2013

AN ACT TO AMEND THE BIRTHS AND DEATHS REGISTRATION ACT(CHAPTER 110)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Births and DeathsRegistration (Amendment) Act, No 25 of 2013 and shall bedeemed to have come into operation on January 1, 2013.

2.Section 24 of the Births and Deaths Registration Act,(Chapter 110) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (2) of thatsection, by the substitution for all the words from everysuch declaration shall to the words the stamps shall besupplied by the declarant. of the words every suchdeclaration shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees fifty orsuch other amount as may be prescribed by the Minister,which shall be paid by the declarant..

3.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionin paragraph (b) from the words and bearing a stamp, to thewords two years have so elapsed. of the words togetherwith a fee of rupees fifty or such other amount as may beprescribed by the Minister, which shall be paid by theapplicant..

4.Section 27A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words shall bear a stamp of the value of five rupeessupplied of the words together with a fee of rupees fifty tobe paid.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theBirths and DeathsRegistration Act(Chapter 110)

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 27A ofthe principalenactment.

2Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2013

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

5.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:

(2) Every application made under subsection (1) shallbe accompanied by a fee of rupees five or such otheramount as may be prescribed by the Minister, whichshall be paid by the applicant..

6.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) by the substitution for all thewords from Every such declaration shall to the words Thestamp shall be supplied by the declarant. of the words Every such declaration shall be accompanied by a fee ofrupees fifty or such other amount as may be prescribed by theMinister which shall be paid by the declarant..

7.Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionin paragraph (c) of that subsection, for the words bear astamp of the value of one rupee, of the words beaccompanied by a fee of rupees fifty or such other amount asmay be prescribed by the Minister,.

8.Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyamended:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from and the amount of the stampduty in respect of to the words or shall be paid tothe of the words and the amount of fees in respectof such declaration payable under this Act, shall betransmitted to the Registrar-General or appropriateDistrict Registrar, who shall pay to the;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words a stamp of the proper value. of thewords a receipt of payment of the proper value..

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactment.

3Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2013

Validation.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

9.Any fees charged or collected by or on behalf of theRegistrar- General or any person authorised under this Act,for any purpose authorized by this Act to charge or collect,during the period commencing on January 1, 2013 and endingon the date on which the certificate of the speaker is endorsedin respect of this Act, shall be deemed to have been validlycharged or collected by the Registrar- General or by any suchperson authorised under this Act:

Provided that the aforesaid provisions shall not affect anydecision or Order made by any Court or any proceedingspending in any Court in respect of any fee charged or collectedduring the aforesaid period.

10.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

4Births and Deaths Registration (Amendment)Act, No. 25 of 2013

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.