PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

—

| TRANSFER OF POWERS ~.
(ANURADHAPURA PRESERVATION BOARD)
(AMENDMENT) .
ACT, No. '47 OF 1979 :

te NS

[Certified on 19th July, 1973]

w

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 20, 1979

—

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
. TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
a Ne . . i—d
Price: 45 cents oe * Postage: 25 cents


Transfer of Powers (Anuradhapura Preservation
Board) (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1979

[Certified on 19th July, 1979]

L. D.—O., 81/78

Aw Act TO AMEND THE TRANSFER OF Powers (ANURADHAPURA
PRESERVATION BoarD) Law, No. 25 or 1974.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Renublie of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Transfer of Powers
(Anuradhapura Preservation Board) (Amendment) Act,
No. 47 of 1979.

2. Section 3 of the Transfer of Powers (Anuradhapura
Preservation Board) Law, No. 25 of 1974 (hereinafter

referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby

amended as follows : —

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and

the substitution therefor of the following new
subsection :—

“ (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Urban
Councils Ordinance, the Minister may by Order
published in the Gazette , appoint a Special
Commissioner to administer the affairs of the
Urban Council.” ; and

(2) by the-insertion immediately after subsection (2) cf
that section, of the following new subsections :—

“ (3) At any time after the appointment of a
Special Commissioner under subsection (1) to
administer the affairs of the Urban Council the
Minister may by Order published in the Gazette—

(a) direct that the first general election in
accordance with the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance shall be held
for the election .of the Chairman, Vice-
Chairman and other members of the Urban
Council; and

(b) appoint the date on which the term of office of
the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other
members elected at such first general election
commence.

(4) The Special Commissioner appointed under
subsection (1) shall on the date of commencement
of the term of office of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman
and other members of the Urban Council, ceases to

A 42193—13,200 (79/06)

Short title.

Amendment
of section 3 of
Law No. 25
of 1974.


Amendment
of section 4
of the princi-

pal enactment.

J

2

Transfer. of Powers (Anuradhapura Preservation ~

Board) (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1979

hold such office and to administer the affairs of the
Urban Council and all the property and the rights
under contracts and all the powers of the Urban
Council deemed to be vested in such Special
Commissioner, and all the duties and liabilities of
Urban Council, transferred to such Special
Commissioner under subsection (2), shall be vested
in, transferred to and discharged by the Urban
Council.”,

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and

the substitution therefor of the following new
subsection :—

“ (1) Notwithstanding the privisions of the
Village Councils Ordinance, the Minister may by
Order published in the Gazette, appoint an
Administrator to: administer the affairs of the
Village Council.” ; and

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) of

that section of the following new subsections :—

“ (3) At any time after the appointment of an
Administrator under subsection (1), to administer
the affairs of a Village Council, the Minister may
by Order published in the Gazette—

(a) direct that the first general election in
accordance with the provisions of the Local
Authorities Elections Ordinance shall be held
for the election of the Chairman, Vice-Chair-
man and the other members of that Vallage
Council ; and

(b) appoint the date on which the term of office of
each member elected at such first general
election shall commence.

(4) The Administrator appointed under sub-
section (1) shall on the date of commencement of
the term of office of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman
and other members of the Village Council, cease to
hold such office and to administer the affairs of the
village council and all the property and the rights
under contracts and all the powers of the Village
Council deemed to be vested in such Administrator


Transfer of Powers (Anuradhapura Preservation 3
Board) (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1979

- and all the duties and liabilities of the Village
‘Council transferred to such Administrator under
subsection (2) shall-be vested in, transferred to, and

- discharged by the Village Council.”.

4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is s hereby amended
as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following new
paragraph :— |

‘ (a) all the immovable property—

(i) vested in the Board by section 34 of the
Anuradhapura Preservation Board Act
(hereinafter referred to as the “ Board
Act”) ;

(ii) acquired for the Board under the Land
Acquisition Act in accordance with the
provisions of section 15 of the Board
Act;

(iii) vested in the Board by section 17 of the.

Board Act;
(iv) purchased by the Board ; and

(v) acquired or purchased by the Special
Commissioner after the dissolution of
the former Anuradhapura Urban
Council,

other than—

(a) any such property in the possession or charge
of any Government Department, immediately

prior to the date of the constitution of the

Urban Council ; and

(b) the power house belonging to such Board,
situated outside the administrative limits of
the Urban Council,

is hereby transferred to and vested in the local
authority within whose administrative limits such
property is situated and any such property vested
in such local authority which is immovable
property of the State vested in the Board subject
to any conditions shall be held by- that local
authority subject to those conditions ;’; and

Amendment
of section 3
of the
principal
enactment.


Replacement
of section 6
of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section 12%
of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section 15
of the
principal
enactment,

4 YLransfer of Powers (Anuradhapura Preservation
Board) (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1979

(2) in paragraph (b) of that section, by the omission 9
the words “other than in respect of any leas€
referred to in paragraph (a) of this section. mM

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby repealet
and the following new section substituted therefor :—

“ Other 6. (a) All State lands, with or without
property — Board
vested buildings, that had been used by the Boar
UREN eity for any of its purposes ; and

(b) all shops, markets and residential
houses which were constructed by the
Government, but were administered by the
Board,

on the date immediately before the date of the
constitution of the Urban Council shall with effect
from the date of such constitution be deemed to
have vested in the local authority within whose
administrative limits such property is situated.”.

6. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for subsection (2) thereof of
the following new subsection :—

“(2) Every lease or alienation of any State land,
whether with or without buildings thereon, within the
Area of Authority of the Board (other than any lease
or alienation of State lands, with or without buildings
thereon vested in the local authority under this Law)
granted by the Board shall be deemed to be lease or
alienation granted by the Government Agent of the
administrative district in which such land is situated,
and may be enforced or acted upon as fully and
effectually as if such Government Agent had been a
party to such lease or alienation. ”.

7. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—
(1) by the insertion immediately after the defiinition
7 “administrator” in that section, of the following
definition :—

‘

€“ alienation ” includes—

(1) any conveyance, transfer, grant or any
other disposition whatsoever; and =,
(2} the transfer of possession under any
purported, proposed or intended
conveyance, transfer, grant or any
other disposition whatsoever ;’ and


Transfer of Powers (Anuradhapura Preservation 9
Board) (Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1979

(2) by the insertion immediately after the definition “ by
law ” in that section of the following definition :—

7

‘“ former Anuradhapura Urban Council” means
the Urban Council which was constituted for the
town of Anuradhapura under the Urban Councils
Ordinance, and was subsequently dissolved by
Order made and published under section 184 of that
Ordinance ;’.

&. With effect from the date of commencement of this Certain
Act, all the property of the following classes, namely— ny

vested in
(a) waste land and open spaces ; the local

authority to
(b) stone, cabook, and gravel quarries ; ee the
(c) public lakes and streams ;

(d) public tanks, ponds and channels ;
(e) state lands, whether with or without buildings; and
if) public parks and gardens and all erections and
structures therein,
vested in the local authority within whose administrative
timits such property is situated, other than all the property
deemed to have vested in such local authority, by section 6

of the principal enactment, as amended by section 5 of this
Act is hereby vested in the State.


Annual subscription of Bills and Laws of the Parliament Rs. 30 (Local)
Rs. 40 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomgo 1, before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following. Late subscriptions will be accepted on the conditions that
Bills and Laws issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.
