SUPPRESSION OF TERRORIST BOMBINGSACT, No. 11 OF 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 24th May, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 28th, 1999.

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs.6.75Postage : Rs. 3.50

(Internet Version)

1Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

Short title anddate of operation.

ConventionStates.

[Certified on 24 th May, 1999]

L.D.O.17/98.

AN ACT GIVE EFFECT TO THE CONVENTION FOR THE SUPPRESSION

OF TERRORIST BOMBINGS; AND FOR MATTERS CONNCECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS a Convention for the suppression of terroristbombings was adopted by the United Nations GeneralAssembly on the Fifteenth Day of December NineteenHundred and Ninety Seven and opened for signature in NewYork on the twelfth day of January, Nineteen Hundred andNinety Eight :

AND WHEREAS the Government of Sri Lanka became asignatory to the aforesaid Convention on the Twelfth Day ofJanuary Nineteen Hundred and Ninety Eight :

AND WHEREAS it is necessary for the Government of SriLanka to ratify the aforesaid Convention and to make legalprovision to give effect to the provisions of the aforesaidConvention is Sri Lanka :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1. This Act may be cited as the Suppression of Terroristbombings Act, No.11 of 1999 and shall come into operationon such date as the Minister, by Order published in theGazette,certifies as the date on which the Convention for theSuppression of Terrorist Bombings signed at New York onJanuary 12, 1998 (hereinafter reffered to as the Convention)enters into force in respect of Sri Lanka.

2. The Minister may, from time to time, by Order publishedin the Gazette, certify the States Which are parties to theConvention. A state in respect of which an Order is madeunder this section is hereinafter referred to as a ConventionState.

H22545

2Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

Offence ofTerroist Bombing3.(1) Any person who unlawfully and intentionally,delivers, places, discharges or detonates, an explosive or otherlethal device in, into, or against, a place of public use, a state orgovenment facility, a public transportation system or aninfrastructure facility with intent to -

(a) cause death or serious bodily injury; or

(b) cause extensive destruction of such place, facility orsystem, where such destruction results in, or is likely toresult in, major economic loss,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall onconviction after trial on indictment by the High Court, bepunished with imprisonment for a term not less than fifteenyears and not exceeding twenty years.

(2) Any person who -

(a) attempts to commit an offence under subsection (1) ;(b) aids or abets in the commission of an offence undersubsection (1) ;(c) conspires with another person or a group of persons tocommit on offence under subsection (1),

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall onconviction, after trial on indictment by the High Court, beliable to the same punishment as is prescribed for an offenceunder subsection (1)

In this subsection, abet has the same meaning as insections 100 and 101 of the Penal Code.

( 3) The High Court shall have the jurisdiction to try anoffence under sebsection (1) or subsection (2) commited inany place outside the territory of Sri Lanka, in any of thefollowing cases, that is to say where -

(a) the person alleged to have commited the offence is acitizen of Sri Lanka or is a stateless person who has hishabitual residence in Sri Lanka;

3Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

Jurisdiction of theHigh Court.

(b) the offence is committed against a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(c) the offence is committed against an embassy, diplomaticor consular premises or other property, of theGovernment of Sri Lanka in any other country;

(d) the offence is committed with the intention of compellingthe Govenment of Sri Lanka to do, or to refrain fromdoing, any act;

(e) the offence is committed on board an aircraft operatedby the Government of Sri Lanka.

4.The jurisdiction vested in the High Court to tryoffences under this Act shall be exercised by the High Courtof Sri Lanka holden at Colombo or the High Court establishedby Article 154P of the Constitution for the Western Province.

5.Where a person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka isarrested for an offence under this Act, such person shall beentitled -

(a) to communicate without delay, with the appropriaterepresentative of the State of which he is a national orwhich is otherwise entitled to protect his rights, or ifhe is a stateless person, with the nearest appropriaterepresentative of the State in the territory of which hewas habitually resident;

(b) to be visited by a representative of that State; and

(c) to be informed of his rights under paragraphs (a) and(b)

6.Where a request is made to the Government of SriLanka, by or on behalf of the Government of a ConventionState for the extradition of any person accused or convictedof an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act, the Ministershall, on behalf of the Government of Sri Lanka, forthwithnotify the Government of the requesting State of the measureswhich the Government of Sri Lanka has taken, or proposes totake, for the prosecution or extradition of that person for thatoffence.

Rights of certainpersons arrestedfor offences underthis Act.

Minister to notifyrequestingcountry, ofmeasures takenagainst personsfor whoseextraditionrequest is made.

4Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

Existingextraditionarrangement withconvention Statesdeemed to providefor offences inthe Schedule.

7.Where there is an extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State inforce on the date on which this Act comes into operation,such arrangement shall be deemed, for the purposes of theExtradition Law, No. 8 of 1977, to include provision forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

8.Where there is no extradition arrangement made bythe Government of Sri Lanka with any Convention State, theMinister may, by Order published in the Gazette, treat theConvention, for the purposes of the Extradition Law, No.8 of1977, as an extradition arrangement made, by the Governmentof Sri Lanka with that Convention State providing forextradition in respect of the offences specified in the Scheduleto this Act.

9.The Extradition Law, No.8 of 1977 is herebyamended in the Schedule to that Law, by the insertionimmediately before Part B of that Schedule, of the followingitem:-

41. The unlawful and intentional delivery, placing,discharging or detonation, of any explosive or otherlethal device, within the meaning of the Convention onthe Suppression of Terrorist Bombings in, into, oragainst, a place of public use or state or governmentfacility a public transportation system or infrastructurefacility, with intent

(a) to cause death or serious bodily injury;

(b) to cause extensive destruction of such place, facilityor system, where such destruction results in, or islikely to result in major economic loss.

Minister maytreat Conventionas an extraditiona r r a n g e m e n tbetween SriLanka andcertainConventionStates, in respectof offences in theSchedule.

Amendment ofExtradition Law,No.8 of 1977.

5Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

10. Notwithstanding anything in the Extradition Law,No.8 of 1977, an offence specified in Part B of the Schedule tothat Law and the Schedule to this Act shall for the purposesof that Law, be deemed not to be an offence of a politicalcharacter or an offence connected with a political offence oran offence inspired by political motives, for the purposesonly of extradition of any person accused or convicted of anysuch offence, as between the Government of Sri Lanka andany Convention State or of affording assistance to aConvention State under section 11.

11.The Government of Sri Lanka shall afford all suchassistance to, and may through the Minister request all suchassistance from, a Convention State as may be necessary forthe investigation and prosecution of an offence under section3 or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act,including, where there is an agreement to that effect betweenthe Government of Sri Lanka and a Convention State,assistance relating to the taking of evidence and statementsand the serving of process.

12.The Government of Sri Lanka shall take appropriatemeasures to prevent any person or group of persons fromcommitting or encouraging, instigating, organizing orknowingly financing the commission of an offence under thisAct, or of an offence specified in the Schedule to this Act,whether in or outside Sri Lanka.

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil text of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

14.In this Act unless the contest otherwise requires

explosive or other lethal device means :

(a) an explosive or incendiary weapon of device that isdesigned or has the capability, to cause death, seriousbodily injury or substantial material damage; or

Offences underthis Act deemednot to be politicaloffences &c., forthe purposes ofthe ExtraditionLaw.

Assistance toConvention States

Government totake measures toprevent offences.

Sinhala Text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

6Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

(b) a weapon or device that is designed, or has thecapability to cause death, serious bodily injury orsubstantial material demage through the release,dissemination or impact of toxic chemicals, biologicalagents or toxins or similar substances or radiation orradioactive material ;

infrastructure facility means any publicly or privately ownedfacility providing or distributing services for thebenefit of the public, such as water, sewage, energy,fuel or communications ;

place of public use means those parts of any building, land,street, water way or other location that are accessibleor open to members of the public, whethercontinuosly, periodically or occasionally, andincludes any commercial, business, cultural,historical, educational, religious, governmental,entertainment, recreational or similar place that is soaccessible or open to the public ;

public transportation system means all facilities,conveyances and instrumentalities, whether publiclyor privately owned, that are used in or for publiclyavailable services for the transportation of personsor cargo;

State or government facility includes any permanent ortemporary facility or conveyance that is used oroccupied by representatives of a State, members ofGovernment, the legislature or the judiciary or byofficials or employees of the State or any other publicauthority or entity or by employees or officials of anintergovernmental organization, in connection withtheir official duties.

7Suppression of Terrorist BombingsAct, No. 11 of 1999

SCHEDULE (Sections 6,7,8 and 10)

1. The unlawful and intentional delivery, placing,discharge or detonation, of an explosive or other lethal device,in, into, or against, a place of public use, a State orgovernment facility, a public transportation system or aninfrastructure facility with intent

(a) to cause death or serious bodily injury ;

(b) to cause extensive destruction of such place, facility orsystem, where such destruction result in, or is likely toresult in, major economic loss.

2. Attempting to commit an offence referred to inparagraph (1).

3. Aiding or abetting the commission of an offencereferred to in paragraph (1).

4. Conspiring with another person or group of persons tocommit an offence referred to in paragraph (1).

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.