2-2d

2-

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 24 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 24th of October, 2017]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 250.00Postage : Rs. 85.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 27, 2017

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

SectionTitlePage

1.Short title and the effective date of the Act.1

PART I

CHAPTER IIMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX

2.Charging provision.1

CHAPTER IIINCOME TAX BASE

Division I: Taxable Income

3.Taxable income.2

Division II: Assessable Income

4.Assessable income.25.Employment income.36.Business income.57.Investment income.68.Other income.7

Division III: Exempt Amounts

9.Exempt amounts.7

Division IV: Deductions

10.General Deduction.811.Main deduction.912.Interest expense.913.Allowance for trading stock.1014.Repairs and improvements.1115.Research and development expenses and agriculturalstart up expenses.1116.Capital allowances and balancing allowances.1217.Losses on realisation of business assets and liabilities.13

(i)

(ii)

SectionTitlePage

18.Deductible amount of financial cost.1419.Business or investment losses.15

CHAPTER IIICALCULATION OF THE INCOME TAX

Division I: Method of Accounting

20.Change in the year of assessment.1621.Method of accounting.1722.Cash basis accounting.1823.Accrual basis accounting.1824.Reverse of amounts including bad debts.20

Division II: Long Term Contracts

25.Long-term contracts.2126.Foreign currency and financial instruments.2227.Quantifying a payment or amount.2428.Indirect payments.2429.Jointly owned investments.2530.Compensation and recovery payments.2531.Annuities, instalment sales and finance leases.2532.Islamic financial transactions.2733.Arms length standard and arrangements betweenassociates.2734.Income splitting.2835.Tax avoidance schemes.29

CHAPTER IVASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Division I: Calculation of Gains and Losses

36.Calculating gains and losses.3137.Cost of an asset.3138.Consideration received.3239.Realisation.3340.Liabilities.3441.Reversal, quantification and compensation of amounts.35

SectionTitlePage

Division II: Realization of assets

42.Cost of trading stock and other fungible assets.3643.Realisation with retention of asset.3744.Transfer of asset to spouse or former spouse.3745.Transfer of asset on death.3846.Transfer of asset to an associate or for no consideration.3847.Involuntary realisation of asset with replacement.4048.Realisation by separation.4149.Transfer by way of security, finance lease or instalmentsale.4150.Payment of Tax on gains from realisation of an Asset.4251.Apportionment of costs and consideration received.42

CHAPTER VTYPES OF PERSONS

Division I: Individuals and Entities

52.Qualifying payments and reliefs.43

Division II: Partnerships

53.Partnerships.4354.Partnership income or loss.4555.Taxation of partners.4556.Cost of and consideration received for partnershipinterest.46

Division III: Trusts and Unit Trusts

57.Taxation of trusts.4758.Taxation of beneficiaries.4959.Taxation of unit trusts.49

Division IV: Companies

60.Taxation of companies.5061.Taxation of shareholders.5162.Remittance tax.51

(iii)

SectionTitlePage

Division V: Entities

63.Asset dealings between entities and members.5264.Change in control.52

CHAPTER VISPECIAL INDUSTRIES

Division I: Petroleum Operations

65.Petroleum operations.53

Division II: Financial Institutions and Insurance Entities

66.Banking business.5467.Insurance business.55

Division III: Non-Governmental Organizations andCharitable Institutions

68.Non-Governmental organizations and charitableinstitutions.56

CHAPTER VIIINTERNATIONAL

Division I: Residence and Sources

69.Resident persons.5770.Change of residence.5971.Source of income and quarantining of foreign losses.5972.Source directly to be included and amounts to bededucted.6173.Source of payments.6174.Foreign Source.65

Division II: Double Taxation Agreements and MutualAdministrative Assistance Agreements

75.Double taxation agreements and mutual administrativeassistance agreements.65

(iv)

SectionTitlePage

Division III: Transfer Pricing

76.Profits and income or loss from internationaltransactions between associates.6677.Profits and income or loss from transactions betweenassociates.7178.Dispute resolution panel.7479.Head office expenditure.75

Division IV: Relief From Double Taxation

80.Foreign tax credit.7581.Calculation of Foreign tax credit.76

CHAPTER VIIITAX PAYMENT PROCEDURE

Division I: Methods and Time for Payments

82.Methods and time for payment.77

Division II: Tax Payable by Withholding

83.Withholding by employers.7884.Withholding from investment returns.7885.Withholding from service fees and contract payments.8086.Statements and payments of tax withheld or treatedas withheld.8187.Withholding certificates.8288.Final withholding payments.8389.Credit for non-final withholding tax.84

Division III: Tax Payable by Instalment

90.Payment of tax by quarterly instalment.8591.Statement of estimated tax payable.8792.Statement of estimated tax payable not required.88

(v)

SectionTitlePage

Division IV: Tax Payable on Assessment

93.Return of income and capital gains.8994.Return of income not required.9195.Assessment.9196.Payment of tax on realisation of investment assetsby partnerships and trusts.92

PART II

CHAPTER IXADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS

Division I: Administration of this Act

97.Officers.9298.Delegation of powers.9399.Inland Revenue Incentive Fund.94100.Confidentiality.95101.Informants.97

Division II:Taxpayer Registration and TaxpayerIdentification Numbers

102.Registration.97103.Taxpayer identification number.98

Division III: Public Rulings

104.Binding Public Rulings.99105.Making a Public Ruling.99106.Withdrawal of a Public Ruling.100

Division IV: Private Rulings

107.Private Rulings.100108.Refusing an Application for a Private Ruling.101109.Making a Private Ruling.102110.Withdrawal of a Private Ruling.103111.Publication of Private Rulings.104

(vi)

SectionTitlePage

Division V: Communications, Forms and Notices

112.Communications with taxpayers and other persons.104113.Application of electronic tax system.105114.Forms and notices.106115.Authorized representatives.107116.Defect does not affect validity.107117.Rectification of mistakes.108118.Taxpayers right to information.108119.Due dates.108

CHAPTER XRECORD KEEPING AND INFORMATION COLLECTION

120.Accounts and records.109121.Obligations of Financial Institutions.110122.Access to information, assets and land.110123.Notice to obtain information.113124.Search and seizure with warrant.115125.Execution of a search and seizure with warrant andsearch without warrant.116

CHAPTER XITAX RETURNS

126.Tax returns.118127.Notice to require filing.119128.Return deemed to be furnished by due authority.120129.Information Returns.120130.Extension of time to file returns.120131.Tax return duly filed.120

CHAPTER XIIASSESSMENTS

132.Self-assessments.120133.Default assessments.121134.Advance assessments.122135.Amended or additional assessments.124136.Application for making an amendment to aself-assessment.126

(vii)

SectionTitlePage

CHAPTER XIIIOBJECTIONS AND APPEALS

137.Objections.127138.The Act to prevail.127139.Administrative Review.128140.Appeal from Administrative Review.129141.Burden of proof.130142.Appeals do not suspend collection of amounts.130143.Finality of assessment.130144.Appeal from a decision of the Tax AppealsCommission.130

CHAPTER XIVLIABILITY FOR AND PAYMENT OF TAX

145.Liability of taxpayer and due date.131146.Liability and obligations of representatives.132147.Officers of unincorporated bodies.136148.Liability for tax following winding-up.136149.Managers of entities.137150.Refundable amounts.138151.Extension of time for payment.138152.Default in payment.139153.Priority of tax.140154.Order of payment of tax debts.141155.Currency.141

CHAPTER XVINTEREST

156.General.141157.Interest on underpayments.142158.Interest on refundable amounts.142159.Interest rate.142

CHAPTER XVIRECOVERY OF TAX

160.General.143

(viii)

SectionTitlePage

161.Period of limitations for collection.143162.Extinguishment of uncollectible amounts.143163.Court proceedings.143164.Lien.144165.Execution against taxpayers property.145166.Sale of seized property.146167.Departure Prohibition Order.149168.Priority in bankruptcy.150169.Offset against payments.151170.Third party debtors.151171.Compliance with notice.153172.Preservation of assets.154173.Non-arms length transferees.156174.Transferred tax liabilities.156175.Receivers.156

CHAPTER XVIIPENALTIES

176.Penalties.158177.Failure to register or notify of changes in taxpayerinformation.159178.Late filing of tax return.159179.Late payment.160180.Negligent or fraudulent underpayment.160181.False or misleading statements.161182.Failure to maintain documents or provide facilities.162183.Failure to comply with third party notice.163184.Transfer pricing penalties.163185.Failure to comply with notice to give information.164

CHAPTER XVIIICRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

186.Criminal proceedings.164187.Aiding and abetting.165188.Period of limitations.165189.Tax evasion.166190.Impeding tax administration.166

(ix)

SectionTitlePage

191.Failure to preserve secrecy.167192.Offences by tax officials.167193.Compounding of offences.168

CHAPTER XIXREGULATIONS

194.Regulations.169

CHAPTER XXINTERPRETATION

195.Interpretation.170196.Associated persons.191197.Domestic expenditure.192198.Financial instruments.193

CHAPTER XXISPECIAL PROVISIONS

199.Implementation of Mutual Administrative AssistanceAgreements.195200.Sinhala text to prevails in case of inconsistency196

CHAPTER XXIITEMPORARY Concessions AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

201.Temporary Concessions.196202.Repeal and Savings.197203.Transitional Provisions.198

SCHEDULES

FIRST SCHEDULETax Rates200

SECOND SCHEDULEInvestment Incentives207

(x)

TitlePage

THIRD SCHEDULEExempt Amounts210

FOURTH SCHEDULECapital Allowances, Balancing Allowancesand Assessable Charges214

FIFTH SCHEDULEQualifying Payments and Reliefs217

SIXTH SCHEDULETemporary Concessions219

(xi)

1Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

2 PL 0053182,962 (07/2017)

Short title andthe effective dateof the Act.

[Certified on 24th of October, 2017]

L.D.O. 23/2017

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017 and comes into operaton on April 1, 2018.

PART I

CHAPTER I

IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX

2.(1) Income tax shall be payable for each year ofassessment by

(a)a person who has taxable income for that year; or

(b)a person who receives a final withholding paymentduring that year.

(2) The amount of income tax payable by a person forany year of assessment shall be the total of the amountspayable under subsection (1).

(3) The income tax payable by a person under paragraph(a) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by

(a)applying the relevant rates of income tax set out inthe First Schedule to this Act to that personstaxable income;

(b)deducting any foreign tax credit claimed by andallowed to the person for the year under section 80of this Act; and

Chargingprovision.

2Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)deducting any other tax credit granted or allowedto the person for the year under this Act.

(4) The income tax payable by a person under paragraph(b) of subsection (1) shall be calculated by applying therelevant rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act to eachfinal withholding payment.

CHAPTER II

INCOME TAX BASE

Division I: Taxable Income

3.(1) Subject to subsection (2), the taxable income of aperson for a year of assessment shall be equal to the total ofthe persons assessable income for the year from eachemployment, business, investment and other sources.

(2) In arriving at taxable income of a year of assessmentqualifying payments and reliefs for that year under section52 shall be deducted.

(3) The taxable income of each person and the assessableincome from each source shall be determined separately.

Division II: Assessable Income

4.The assessable income of a person for a year ofassessment from employment, business, investment or othersource shall be equal to

(a)in the case of a resident person, the persons incomefrom employment, business, investment or othersource for that year, wherever the source arises; and

(b)in the case of a non-resident person, the personsincome from the employment, business, investment

Taxable income.

Assessableincome.

3Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

or other source for that year, to the extent thatthe income arises in or is derived from a source inSri Lanka.

5.(1) An individuals income from an employment fora year of assessment shall be the individuals gains andprofits from the employment for that year of assessment.

(2) In calculating an individuals gains and profits froman employment for a year of assessment the followingamounts received or derived by the individual during theyear of assessment from the employment shall be included:-

(a)payments of salary, wages, leave pay, overtime pay,fees, pensions, commissions, gratuities, bonuses andother similar payments;

(b)payments of personal allowance, including any costof living, subsistence, rent, entertainment or travelallowance;

(c)payments providing discharge or reimbursementof expenses incurred by the individual or anassociate of the individual;

(d)payments for the individuals agreement toconditions of employment;

(e)payments for redundancy or loss or termination ofemployment;

(f)subject to paragraph (f) of subsection (3), retirementcontributions made to a retirement fund on behalfof the employee and retirement payments receivedin respect of the employment;

(g)payments or transfers to another person for thebenefit of the individual or an associate person ofthe individual;

Employmentincome.

4Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(h)the fair market value of benefits received or derivedby virtue of the employment by an individual or anassociate person of the individual;

(i)other payments, including gifts received in respectof the employment; and

(j)the market value of shares at the time allotted underan employee share scheme, including shares allottedas a result of the exercise of an option or right toacquire the shares, reduced by the employeescontribution for the shares.

(3) In calculating an individuals gains and profits froman employment for a year of assessment the following shallbe excluded:-

(a)exempt amounts and final withholding payments;

(b)a discharge or reimbursement of expenses incurredby the individual on behalf of the employer;

(c)a discharge or reimbursement of the persons dental,medical or health insurance expenses where thebenefit is available to all full-time employees onequal terms;

(d)payments made to or benefits accruing to employeeson a non-discriminatory basis that, by reason oftheir size, type and frequency, are unreasonable oradministratively impracticable for the employer toaccount for or to allocate to the individual;

(e)the value of a right or option to acquire shares atthe time granted to an employee under an employeeshare scheme (referred to in paragraph (j) ofsubsection (2)); and

5Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(f)subject to conditions as may be specified by theCommissioner-General, contributions made by anemployer to an employees account with a pension,provident or savings fund or savings societyapproved by the Commissioner - General.

6.(1) A persons income from a business for a year ofassessment shall be the persons gains and profits fromconducting the business for the year.

(2) In calculating a persons gains and profits fromconducting a business for a year of assessment the followingamounts derived by the person during the year of assessmentfrom the business shall be included

(a)service fees;

(b)consideration received in respect of trading stock;

(c)gains from the realisation of capital assets andliabilities of the business as calculated underChapter IV;

(d)amounts required to be included by the Second orFourth Schedule to this Act on the realisation ofthe persons depreciable assets of the business;

(e)amounts derived as consideration for accepting arestriction on the capacity to conduct the business;

(f)gifts received by the person in respect of thebusiness;

(g)amounts derived that are effectively connected withthe business and that would otherwise be includedin calculating the persons income from aninvestment; and

Businessincome.

6Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(h)other amounts required to be included under thisAct.

(3) In calculating a persons gains and profits fromconducting a business for a year of assessment the followingshall be excluded:-

(a)exempt amounts and final withholding payments;and

(b)amounts that are included in calculating thepersons income from an employment.

7. (1) A persons income from an investment for a yearof assessment shall be the persons gains and profits fromthat investment for the year.

(2) In calculating a persons gains and profits from aninvestment derived or received during a year of assessmentthe following amounts received or derived by the personduring the year of assessment from the investment shall beincluded:-

(a)dividends, interest, discounts, charges, annuities,natural resource payments, rents, premiums androyalties;

(b)gains from the realisation of investment assets ascalculated under Chapter IV;

(c)amounts derived as consideration for accepting arestriction on the capacity to conduct theinvestment;

(d)gifts received by the person in respect of theinvestment;

(e)winnings from lotteries, betting or gambling; and

(f)other amounts required to be included under thisAct.

Investmentincome.

7Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) In calculating a persons gains and profits from aninvestment for a year of assessment the following shall beexcluded:-

(a)exempt amounts and final withholding payments;and

(b)amounts that are included in calculating thepersons income from an employment or business.

8.(1) A persons income from other sources for a year ofassessment shall be that persons gains and profits from anysource whatsoever for the year, not including profits of acasual and non-recurring nature.

(2) In calculating a persons gains or profits from anysource whatsoever, the following shall be excluded:-

(a)exempt amounts and final withholding payments;and

(b)amounts that are included in calculating thepersons income from an employment, business orinvestment.

Division III: Exempt Amounts

9.(1) The amounts referred to in the Third Schedule tothis Act shall be exempt from the payment of tax.

(2) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, an exemptionof any person or amount from tax imposed by this Act shallnot be provided and an agreement that affects or purports toaffect the application of this Act shall not be entered into,except as provided for in this Act.

(3) Subsection (2) shall not apply to a provision in anotherlaw or an agreement that is in force on date of commencementof this Act.

Other income.

Exemptamounts.

8Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Division IV: Deductions

10.(1) (a) No deduction shall be made in calculating apersons income from employment.

(b) The following deductions shall not be made incalculating a persons income:-

(i)domestic expenses incurred by the person (section197);

(ii)tax payable under this Act;

(iii)interest, penalties and fines payable to agovernment or a political subdivision of agovernment of any country for breach of any writtenlaw;

(iv)expenditure to the extent incurred by a person inderiving exempt amounts or final withholdingpayments;

(v)retirement contributions, unless they are includedin calculating the income of an employee or consistof a contribution by an employer to a pension,provident or savings fund or a savings society,which is approved by the Commissioner-Generalsubject to any specified conditions;

(vi)dividends of a company;

(vii)outlays or expenses for entertainment;

(viii)an amount that a person has transferred, in hisfinancial accounts, to a reserve or provision forexpenditures or losses not yet incurred but expectedto be incurred in a future year of assessment;

GeneralDeduction.

9Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ix)amounts incurred on lotteries, betting or gambling,other than amounts incurred from conducting abusiness of lotteries, betting or gambling; or

(x)taxes or other levies specified by the Commissioner-General.

(2) Where a person is allowed a deduction for a paymentfrom which the person is required to withhold tax underDivision II of Chapter VIII, the deduction shall not be alloweduntil the tax withheld has been paid to the Commissioner-General.

(3) No deduction shall be allowed except as expresslypermitted by this Act.

(4) Where more than one deduction applies, the mostspecific deduction shall be applied even if that results in thedenial of a deduction.

11.(1) In calculating a persons income from a businessor investment for a year of assessment, expenses to the extentthey are incurred during the year by the person and in theproduction of income from the business or investment, shallbe deducted.

(2)No deduction shall be allowed under subsection(1) for an expense of a capital nature.

(3) In this section, expense of a capital nature includesan expense that secures a benefit capable of lasting longerthan twelve months.

12.For the purposes of section 11, the interest incurredby a person during a year of assessment under a debtobligation of the person shall be deemed to be incurred inthe production of income to the extent that

(a)where the debt obligation was incurred inborrowing money, the money is used during the

Maindeduction.

Interest expense.

10Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

year or was used to acquire an asset that is usedduring the year in the production of income; and

(b)in any other case, the debt obligation was incurredin the production of income.

13.(1) For the purposes of calculating a personsincome from a business for a year of assessment, in respect oftrading stock of the business, the allowance calculated undersubsection (2) shall be deducted.

(2) The allowance shall be calculated as

(a)the opening value of trading stock of the businessfor the year of assessment; plus

(b)expenses incurred by the person during the yearthat are included in the cost of trading stock ofthe business; less

(c)the closing value of trading stock of the businessfor the year.

(3) The opening value of trading stock of a business for ayear of assessment shall be the closing value of trading stockof the business at the end of the previous year of assessment.

(4) The closing value of trading stock of a business for ayear of assessment shall be the lower of

(a)the cost of the trading stock of the business at theend of the year; or

(b)the market value of the trading stock of the businessat the end of the year.

(5) Where the closing value of trading stock is determinedin accordance with paragraph (b) of subsection (4), the costof the trading stock shall reset to that value.

Allowance fortrading stock.

11Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

14.(1) Expenses for the repair or improvement ofdepreciable assets and meeting the requirements ofsubsection (1) of section 11 of a person for any year ofassessment shall be deducted irrespective of whether theyare of a capital nature or not.

(2) The deductions referred to in subsection (1) grantedfor a year of assessment with respect to a depreciable asset ofa person

(a)shall not exceed

(i)in the case of repair or improvement to a Class4 depreciable asset, five percent of the writtendown value of the asset at the end of theprevious year (paragraph 4(3) of the FourthSchedule);

(ii)in all other cases, twenty percent of the writtendown value of the asset at the end of theprevious year (paragraph 4(3) of the FourthSchedule); and

(b)shall be allowed in the order in which the expensesare incurred.

(3) Excess expense for which a deduction shall not beallowed as a result of the limitation in subsection (2) shallbe added to the depreciation basis of the asset year (paragraph(3) of the Fourth Schedule).

15.(1) Research and development expenses andagricultural start up expenses meeting the requirements ofsubsection (1) of section 11 may be deducted irrespective ofwhether they are of a capital nature or not.

(2) In this section

agricultural start up expenses means expensesincurred by the person in

(a)opening up any land for cultivation or foranimal husbandry;

Repairs andimprovements.

Research anddevelopmentexpenses andagricultural startup expenses.

12Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)cultivating land referred to in paragraph (a)with plants;

(c)the purchase of livestock or poultry to bereared on land referred to in paragraph (a); or

(d)maintaining tanks or ponds or the clearing orpreparation of any inland waters for therearing of fish and the purchase of fish to bereared in such tank, pond or inland waters, asthe case may be;

research and development expenses meansexpenses incurred by the person in

(a)carrying on any scientific, industrial,agricultural or any other research forthe upgrading of the persons businessthrough any institution in Sri Lanka (orfor any innovation or research relatingto high value agricultural products, bythe person or through any researchinstitution in Sri Lanka); or

(b)the process of developing the personsbusiness and improving businessproducts or process,

which shall be beneficial to Sri Lanka, butshall exclude expenses incurred that areotherwise included in the cost of an assetunder this Act.

16.(1) For the purposes of calculating a persons incomefrom a business for a year of assessment

(a)the Capital allowances referred to in subsection (2)shall be deducted; and

(b)the balancing allowances referred to in subsection(4) shall be deducted;

Capitalallowances andbalancingallowances.

13Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Capital allowances are

(a)granted in respect of depreciable assets ownedand used by a person at the end of a year ofassessment in the production of the personsincome from a business; and

(b)calculated in accordance with the provisionsof the Second or Fourth Schedule to this Act.

(3) Capital allowances granted with respect to a particularyear of assessment shall be taken in that year and shall notbe deferred to a later year of assessment.

(4) Balancing allowances are

(a)made in respect of depreciable assets -

(i)realised during a year of assessment; and

(ii)in respect of which Capital allowanceshave been granted in that year or an earlieryear; and

(b)calculated in accordance with the provisions ofthe Second or Fourth Schedule to this Act.

17.(1) For the purposes of calculating a persons incomefrom a business for a year of assessment, a loss of the personfrom the realisation during the year of assets and liabilitiesreferred to in subsection (2) shall be deducted. The loss shallbe calculated under Chapter IV.

(2) The assets and liabilities are

(a)capital assets of a business to the extent to whichthe assets were used in the production of incomefrom the business; and

Losses onrealisation ofbusiness assetsand liabilities.

14Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)liabilities of a business to the extent to which

(i)in the case of a liability that is a debtobligation incurred in borrowing money, themoney was used or an asset purchased withthe money was used in the production ofincome from the business; and

(ii)in the case of any other liability, the liabilitywas incurred in the production of income fromthe business.

18.(1) The amount of financial costs deducted incalculating an entitys income, other than a financialinstitution from conducting a business or investment for ayear of assessment shall not exceed the amount of financialcosts attributable to financial instruments within the limitreferred to in subsection (2).

(2) The limit shall be computed according to the followingformula:-

A x B

Where:

Ais the total of the issued share capital andreserves of the entity; and

Bis

(a)in the case of a manufacturing entity, thenumber 3; and

(b)in the case of an entity other than amanufacturing entity, the number 4.

(3) Financial costs for which a deduction is denied as aresult of subsection (1), may be carried forward and treated

Deductibleamount offinancial cost.

15Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

as incurred during any of the following six years ofassessment, but only to the extent of any unused limitationin subsection (2) for the year.

(4) The Commissioner-General may specify thecircumstances in which losses on financial instruments mayonly be set against gains on financial instruments.

(5) In this section, reserves exclude reserves arisingfrom the revaluation of any asset.

19.(1) In calculating the income of a person from abusiness for a year of assessment, the following shall bededucted:

(a)an unrelieved loss of the person for the year fromany other business; and

(b)an unrelieved loss of the person for any of theprevious six years of assessment from the businessor any other business.

(2) The person may choose the income calculation orcalculations in which an unrelieved loss or part of the loss isdeducted. However, where a loss can be deducted undersubsection (1) it shall be deducted.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and(2), where a person makes a loss and if the loss were a profitit would be taxed at a reduced rate, the loss shall be deductedonly in calculating income taxed at the same reduced rate, alower reduced rate or exempt amounts. If the loss were aprofit and the profit would be exempt, the loss shall bededucted only in calculating exempt amounts.

(4) The provisions of subsections from (1) to (3) shallsubject to the provisions in subsection (5), apply to

Business orinvestmentlosses.

16Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

calculating income from an investment and unrelieved lossesfrom an investment so that

(a)unrelieved losses from a business may be deductedin calculating income from an investment;

(b)unrelieved losses from an investment shall bededucted only in calculating income from aninvestment.

(5) Subject to section 194, a gain from the realisation ofan investment asset shall not be reduced by any loss on thedisposal of another investment asset.

(6) In this section

loss of a person for a year of assessment from abusiness or investment shall be calculated as theexcess of amounts deducted in accordance withthis Act (other than under this section or subsection(5) of section 25) in calculating the personsincome from the business or investment overamounts included in calculating that income; and

unrelieved loss means the amount of a loss that hasnot been deducted in calculating a personsincome under this section or subsection (5) ofsection 25.

CHAPTER III

CALCULATION OF THE INCOME TAX

Division 1: Method of Accounting

20.(1) The year of assessment means the period oftwelve months commencing on the first day of April of anyyear and ending on the thirty first day of March in theimmediately succeeding year.

Change in theyear ofassessment.

17Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) A trust or company may apply to the Commissioner-General for a change to its year of assessment and theCommissioner-General may, on such terms and conditionsas the Commissioner-General thinks fit, approve the change.The Commissioner-General may revoke an approval if a trustor company fails to comply with a term or condition attachedto the approval.

(3) A change in a trust or companys year of assessmentshall result in altering the time at which the trust or companyshall pay tax by instalments and on assessment underChapter VIII.

21.(1) Unless otherwise provided by this Act, the timingof inclusions and deductions in calculating a personsincome shall be made according to generally acceptedaccounting principles.

(2) An individual shall account for income tax purposeson a cash basis in calculating the individuals income froman employment or investment.

(3)An individual or entity conducting business shallaccount for income tax purposes on an accrual basis.

(4) A person shall account for income tax purposes theincome from sources other than the sources referred to insubsections (2) and (3) on either a cash or accrual basis,whichever properly computes the persons income.

(5)Subject to subsections (2) and (3), theCommissioner-General may by written notice require a personto use a particular method of accounting or may approve anapplication of a person to change the persons method ofaccounting. The Commissioner-General shall be satisfiedthat the new method is necessary to properly compute thepersons income.

(6)Where a persons method of accounting changes,adjustments shall be made in the year of assessment following

Method ofaccounting.

18Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

the change so that no item is omitted or taken into accountmore than once.

22.(1) Under the cash basis of accounting, a person

(a)derives an amount when payment is receivedby or made available to the person; and

(b)incurs an expense or other amount when it ispaid by the person.

(2) For the purpose of this section, payment received inrelation to an amount shall include

(a)used on behalf of the person either at the instructionof the person or under any law;

(b)reinvested, accumulated or capitalised for thebenefit of the person;

(c)credited to an account, or carried to any reserve, ora sinking or insurance fund for the benefit of theperson; or

(d)constructive receipt.

23.(1) Under the accrual basis of accounting, a person

(a)derives an amount when it is receivable bythe person; and

(b)incurs an expense or other amount when it ispayable by the person.

(2) An amount shall be receivable by a person when theperson becomes entitled to receive it, even if the time fordischarge of the entitlement is postponed or the entitlementis payable by instalments.

Cash basisaccounting.

Accrual basisaccounting.

19Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) An amount shall be treated as payable by the personwhen all the events that determine liability have occurredand the amount of the liability can be determined withreasonable accuracy, but not before economic performancewith respect to the amount occurs.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), economicperformance occurs

(a)with respect to the acquisition of services or assets,at the time the services or assets are provided;

(b)with respect to the use of an asset, at the time theasset is used; and

(c)in any other case, at the time the person makespayment in full satisfaction of the liability.

(5) Where in calculating income on an accrual basis aninaccuracy referred to in subsection (6) or (7) occurs

(a)appropriate adjustments shall be made at the timethe payment is received or made to remedy theinaccuracy, or at the time of the deemed inaccuracy;and

(b)the Commissioner-General may require the personto include the appropriate adjustment in the year ofassessment in which the inaccuracy originallyoccurred notwithstanding the time limits specifiedin Part II of this Act for the amendment ofassessments.

(6) An inaccuracy occurs

(a)when a person is calculating for a payment of aparticular quantity to which the person is entitledor that the person is obliged to make; and

20Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)subsequently that entitlement or obligationbeing satisfied by a payment received or madeby the person, as the case requires, of a differentamount, including by reason of a change incurrency valuations.

(7)An inaccuracy is deemed to occur when

(a)a person is calculating for a payment of aparticular quantity that the person is obligedto make; and

(b)subsequently that obligation is not satisfiedby a payment being made by the person withinthree years of the obligation arising.

24.(1) Where a person deducts an expense in calculatingthe persons income and the person later recovers theexpense, the person shall, at the time of recovery, includethe amount recovered in calculating the persons income.

(2) Where a person includes an amount in calculating thepersons income, because of a legal obligation to do so, andthe person later refunds the amount, the person shall, at thetime of refund, shall deduct the amount refunded incalculating the persons income.

(3) Where, in calculating income on an accrual basis, aperson deducts an expense that the person is obliged tomake and the person later disclaims an obligation to incurthe expense, the person shall, at the time of disclaimer,include the amount disclaimed in calculating the personsincome.

(4) Subsection (5) shall be applicable where, in calculatingincome on an accrual basis, a person includes an amount towhich the person is entitled and the person later

(a)disclaims an entitlement to receive the amount; or

Reverse ofamountsincluding baddebts.

21Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)in the case where the amount constitutes a debtclaim of the person, the person writes off the debt asbad.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (6), the personmay, at the time of disclaimer or write off, deduct the amountdisclaimed or written off in calculating the persons income.

(6) Subject to section 66 (banking business activities), aperson cannot disclaim the entitlement to receive an amountor write off a debt claim as bad unless the person has takenreasonable steps in pursuing payment and the personreasonably believes that the entitlement or debt claim willnot be satisfied.

Division II: Long Term Contracts

25.(1) This section shall apply to a person whoconducts a business, accounts for income tax purposes onan accrual basis with respect to that business and is a partyto a long-term contract.

(2) Amounts to be included or deducted in calculatingthe persons income that relate to a long-term contract shallbe taken into account on the basis of the percentage of thecontract completed during each year of assessment.

(3) The percentage of completion shall be determined bycomparing the total expenses allocated to the contract andincurred before the end of a year of assessment with theestimated total contract expenses as determined at the timeof commencement of the contract.

(4) Subsection (5) shall apply where a long-term contractis completed and the person has an unrelieved lossattributable to that contract for the year of assessment inwhich the contract ended or any earlier year of assessment.An unrelieved loss of a business for a year of assessmentshall be attributable to a long-term contract to the extentthat there is a loss from the contract for the year.

Long-termcontracts.

22Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(5) The Commissioner-General may allow the unrelievedloss to be carried back and treated as an unrelieved loss of anearlier year of assessment for the purpose of section 19. Theamount carried back shall be limited to the profit, if any,from the contract for the year of assessment to which the lossis carried back.

(6) A profit or a loss from a long-term contract for a yearof assessment shall be determined by comparing amountsincluded in income under the contract with deductions underthe contract for that year.

(7) In this section

long-term contract means a contract

(a)for manufacture, installation or constructionor, in relation to each, the performance ofrelated services; and

(b)which is not completed within twelve monthsof the date on which work under the contractcommences.

unrelieved loss, with respect to a business, shallhave the meaning given in section 19.

26.(1) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), this sectionshall apply to a person who is a financial institution where,under the provisions in Division II or IV of Chapter II, thatperson shall include an amount or may deduct an amount inrelation to a financial instrument in calculating income froma business or investment.

(2) The time at which the amount is to be included ordeducted shall be determined in accordance with generallyaccepted accounting principles. Those principles alsodetermine to whom the amount shall be allocated, itsquantum and its character.

Foreigncurrency andfinancialinstruments.

23Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) In particular, generally accepted accounting principlesapply even if they require the inclusion or deduction of anamount on a fair value accounting (mark-to-market) basisirrespective of

(a)the other provisions of this Division;

(b)whether or not the amounts have yet been derived,incurred or realised; and

(c)whether or not the amounts are of a capital orrevenue nature.

(4) With the prior written approval of the Commissioner-General a person may include an amount or deduct anamount in relation to a financial instrument in calculatingincome from a business or investment

(a)when realised;

(b)using a specified treatment relating to the characterand timing of the amount, including where thefinancial instrument has been entered into forhedging purposes; and

(c)where the amount is in a currency other thanSri Lankan Rupees, using a specified translationmethod such as requiring that the amount must betranslated to Sri Lankan Rupees at the exchangerate applying between the foreign currency andSri Lankan Rupees on the date the amount is takeninto account for the purposes of this Act.

(5) The Commissioner-General may specify the extent towhich this section applies to another person or class ofpersons.

(6) In the absence of an applicable specification by theCommissioner-General under subsection (5), an amount taken

24Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

into account under this Act shall be expressed in Sri LankanRupees and, if an amount is in a currency other than SriLankan Rupees, the amount shall be translated to Sri LankanRupees at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka exchange rateapplying between the foreign currency and Sri LankanRupees on the date the amount is taken into account for thepurposes of this Act.

27.(1) A payment or amount to be included or deductedin calculating income of a person shall be quantified in theamount, as specified by the Commissioner-General or, inany other case, according to market value.

(2) The amount of a payment shall be quantified withoutreduction for any tax withheld from the payment underDivision II of Chapter VIII of this Act.

(3) Market value shall be determined

(a)with due regard for the arms length standardreferred to in section 33; but

(b)in the case of an asset, without regard to anyrestriction on transfer of the asset or the fact thatthe asset is not otherwise convertible into apayment of money or moneys worth.

28.(1) Subsection (2) shall apply where a person mayindirectly benefit from a payment or direct who is to be thepayee of a payment and the payer intends the payment tobenefit the person.

(2) The Commissioner-General may, by notice in writingserved on the person

(a)treat a person as the payee of the payment;

(b)treat a person as the payer of the payment; or

Quantifying apayment oramount.

Indirectpayments.

25Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)treat the person as the payee of the payment and asmaking an equal payment to the person who wouldbe considered the payee of the payment.

(3) In this section, an intention of the payer of a paymentincludes an intention of an associate of the payer or a thirdperson under an arrangement with the payer or with anassociate of the payer.

29.(1) In calculating a persons income from aninvestment that is jointly owned with another person,amounts to be included and deducted shall be apportionedamong the joint owners in proportion to their interests in theinvestment.

(2)Where the interests of joint owners cannot beascertained they shall be treated as equal.

30.Where a person or an associate of the person derivesan amount which compensates for or represents recovery of

(a)income or an amount to be included in calculatingincome, which the person expects or expected toderive; or

(b)a loss or an amount to be deducted in calculatingincome, which the person has incurred or which theperson expects or is expected to incur,

subject to section 24, the compensation amount shall beincluded in calculating the income of the person and takesits character from the amount compensated for.

31.(1) Payments made by a person under a finance leaseor in acquiring an asset under an instalment sale shall betreated as interest and a repayment of capital under a loanmade by the lessor or seller to the lessee or buyer, as the caserequires.

(2) Payments made to a person under an annuity shall betreated as interest and a repayment of capital under a loanmade by the person to the payer of the annuity.

Annuities,instalment salesand financeleases.

Compensationand recoverypayments.

Jointly ownedinvestments.

26Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The interest and repayment of capital undersubsections (1) and (2) shall be calculated as if the loan werea blended loan with interest compounded six-monthly orsuch other period as the Commissioner-General may specify.

(4) Section 49 provides further provisions regardingtransfers under finance leases and instalment sales.

(5) The Commissioner-General may specify any otherforms of financing that relates to interest substitutes.

(6) For the purposes of this section

annuity does not include an amount payable

(a)under an order of court by way of payment ofalimony or maintenance; or

(b)to a spouse under a duly executed deed ofseparation;

blended loan means a loan

(a)under which payments by the borrowerrepresent in part a payment of interest and inpart a repayment of capital;

(b)where the interest part is calculated on capitaloutstanding at the time of each payment; and

(c)where the rate of interest is uniform over theterm of the loan;

finance lease means a lease where

(a)the lease agreement provides for transfer ofownership following the end of the lease termor the lessee has an option to acquire the assetafter expiry of the lease term for a fixed orpresupposed price;

27Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)the lease term exceeds seventy five per centof the useful life of the asset;

(c)the estimated market value of the asset afterexpiry of the lease term is less than twentyper cent of its market value at the start of thelease;

(d)in the case of a lease that commences beforethe last twenty five percent of the useful lifeof the asset, the present value of the minimumlease payments equals or exceeds ninety percent of the market value of the asset at thestart of the lease term; or

(e)the asset is custom-made for the lessee andafter expiry of the lease term the asset willnot be of practical use to any person otherthan the lessee;

instalment sale excludes a sale that provides forcommercial periodic interest payable on salesproceeds outstanding; and

lease term includes an additional period for whichthe lessee has an option to renew a lease.

32.Income arising from any Islamic financialtransaction shall be subject to tax in a similar manner asequivalent in substance to non-Islamic financial transactions.

33.(1) Where an arrangement exists between associatedpersons, the persons shall calculate their income and taxpayable according to the arms length standard.

(2) The arms length standard requires associated personsto quantify, characterise, apportion and allocate amounts tobe included or deducted in calculating income to reflectarrangements that would have been made betweenindependent persons.

Islamic financialtransactions.

Arms lengthstandard andarrangementsbetweenassociates.

28Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The Commissioner-General may by publication inthe Gazette specify the manner in which arms lengthagreements may be entered into for the purpose ofdetermining the arms length price.

(4) Where, in the opinion of the Commissioner-General,a person fails to comply with subsection (1), theCommissioner-General may make adjustments in compliancewith subsection (1) and the Commissioner-General may

(a)re-characterise an arrangement made betweenassociated persons, including re-characterising debtfinancing as equity financing;

(b)re-characterise the source and type of any income,loss, amount or payment; and

(c)apportion and allocate expenditure, based onturnover.

34.(1) Where a person attempts to split income withanother person, the Commissioner-General may prevent anyreduction in tax payable by issuing a notice in writing.

(2) A notice referred to in subsection (1) may containamounts to be included or deducted in calculating the incomeof each person or re-characterise the source and type of anyincome, loss, amount or payment.

(3) A reference to a person attempting to split incomeincludes a reference to an arrangement between associatedpersons

(a)for the transfer of an asset (directly or indirectly),including the transfer of an amount to be derived;

(b)where the transferor retains any legal or implicitright to benefit (currently or in the future) from theasset; and

Income splitting.

29Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)where one of the reasons for the transfer is to lowertax payable by any person.

(4) Where a spouse receives income for services renderedin any business carried on or exercised

(a)by the other spouse; or

(b)by a partnership of which that other spouse is apartner,

the income shall be included in the income of the spousewho carries on the business or that partnership of which thatother spouse is a partner.

35.(1) This section shall apply where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that

(a)a scheme has been entered into or carried out;

(b)a person has obtained a tax benefit in connectionwith the scheme; and

(c)having regard to the substance of the scheme, it canbe concluded that a person, or one of the persons,who entered into or carried out the scheme did sofor the sole or dominant purpose of enabling theperson referred to in paragraph (b) to obtain a taxbenefit.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, theCommissioner-General may determine the tax liability ofthe person who obtained the tax benefit as if the scheme hadnot been entered into or carried out, or as if a reasonablealternative to entering into or carrying out the scheme wouldhave instead been entered into or carried out, or that anytransaction which reduces or would have the effect of

Tax avoidanceschemes.

30Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

reducing the amount of tax payable by any person is artificialor fictitious and can make compensating adjustments to thetax liability of any other person affected by the scheme.

(3) Where a determination or adjustment is made, theCommissioner-General shall issue an assessment givingeffect to the determination or adjustment.

(4) The assessment made under subsection (3) shall beserved within five years from the last day of the year ofassessment to which the determination or adjustment relates.

(5) For the purposes of this section -

scheme includes any course of action, trust, grant,agreement, arrangement, understanding, promise,plan, proposal or undertaking, whether express orimplied and whether or not enforceable;

tax benefit means

(a)a reduction in a liability to pay tax, includingon account of a deduction, credit, offset orrebate;

(b)a postponement of a liability to pay tax;

(c)any other advantage arising because of adelay in payment of tax; or

(d)anything that causes

(i)an amount of gross revenue to beexempt income or otherwise not subjectto tax; or

(ii)an amount that would otherwise besubject to tax not to be taxed.

31Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

CHAPTER IV

ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

Division I: Calculation of Gains and Losses

36.(1) A persons gain from the realisation of an assetor liability shall be the amount by which the sum of theconsideration received for the asset or liability exceeds thecost of the asset or liability at the time of realisation.

(2) The loss of a person from the realisation of an asset orliability shall be the amount by which the cost of the asset orliability exceeds the sum of the consideration received forthe asset or liability at the time of realisation.

(3) A gain made by a person on the realisation of aninvestment asset shall be reduced by any part of the gainthat is included in calculating the persons income from anemployment or business.

(4) Where an asset or liability owned by a person is usedin the production of two or more sources of income, the costof and consideration received for the asset shall beapportioned between each source according to the marketvalue of the parts used to produce each source.

37.(1) Subject to this Act, the cost of an asset of a personshall be the sum of

(a)expenditure incurred by the person in acquiringthe asset including, where relevant, expenditure onconstruction, manufacture or production of theasset;

(b)expenditure incurred by the person in altering,improving, maintaining or repairing the asset;

(c)incidental expenditure incurred by the person inacquiring and realising the asset; and

Calculatinggains and losses.

Cost of an asset.

32Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d)income amounts referred to in subsection (2).

(2) An income amount shall be

(a)an amount required by Division II of Chapter II tobe directly included in calculating the personsincome or that is an exempt amount or finalwithholding payment of the person;

(b)where the treatment in paragraph (a) results fromthe person acquiring the asset or another personincurring expenditure of the type mentioned inparagraph (b) or (c) of subsection (1) on behalf ofthe person.

(3) The cost of an asset shall not include consumptionexpenditure, excluded expenditure and expenditure to theextent to which it is deducted in calculating a personsincome or included in the cost of another asset.

(4) In this section, incidental expenditure incurred bya person in acquiring or realising an asset shall include

(a)advertising expenditure, transfer taxes, duties andother expenditure of transfer;

(b)expenditure of establishing, preserving ordefending ownership of the asset; and

(c)remuneration for the services of an accountant,agent, auctioneer, broker, consultant, legal advisor,surveyor or valuer relating to expenditure referredto in paragraph (a) or (b).

38.(1) Subject to this Act, consideration received foran asset of a person at a particular time shall be

(a)amounts received or receivable by the person forthe asset, including the fair market value of any

Considerationreceived.

33Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

consideration in kind determined at the time ofrealisation;

(b)amounts derived by the person in respect of owningthe asset including

(i)amounts derived from altering or decreasingthe value of the asset; and

(ii)amounts derived from the asset including byway of covenant to repair or otherwise; and

(c)amounts derived by the person or an entitlementfor the person to derive an amount in the future inrespect of realising the asset.

(2) The consideration received for the realisation of anasset shall include the consideration for the grant of an optionin relation to the asset, only if the person has not been subjectto tax in respect of any income or gain made on the grant ofthe option.

(3) The consideration received for an asset shall notinclude an exempt amount, a final withholding payment or,other than in the case of trading stock, an amount to bedirectly included in calculating the persons income underDivision II of Chapter II.

39.Subject to this Act, a person who owns an assetshall be treated as realising the asset

(a)when that person parts with ownership of the asset,including when the asset is sold, exchanged,transferred, distributed, cancelled, redeemed,destroyed, lost, expired, expropriated orsurrendered;

(b)in the case of an asset of a person who ceases toexist, including by reason of the death of an

Realisation.

34Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

individual, immediately before the person ceasesto exist;

(c)in the case of an asset other than trading stock or adepreciable asset, where the sum of considerationreceived from owning the asset exceeds the cost ofthe asset;

(d)in the case of an asset that is a debt claim owned bya person, the person reasonably believes the debtclaim will not be satisfied, where the person hastaken reasonable steps in pursuing the debt claimand the person writes the debt off as bad;

(e)in the case of trading stock, a depreciable asset, acapital asset of a business or an investment asset,immediately before the person begins to employthe asset in such a way that it ceases to be an assetof any of those types; and

(f)in the circumstances referred to in section 70(change of residence).

40.(1) The costs of and consideration received for aliability of a person shall be determined in accordance withsections 37 and 38 as though

(a)a reference to an asset were a reference to a liability;

(b)expenditure incurred in realising the liability isincluded in the costs of the liability; and

(c)amounts derived in respect of incurring the liabilityare included in the consideration received for theliability.

(2) Subject to this Act, a person who owes a liability shallbe treated as realising the liability

(a)when the person ceases to owe the liability,including when the liability is transferred, satisfied,cancelled, released or expired;

Liabilities.

35Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)in the case of a liability of a person who ceases toexist, including by reason of the death of anindividual, immediately before the person ceasesto exist; and

(c)in the circumstances referred to in section 70(change of residence).

(3) Subject to any regulations, the provisions of DivisionII shall apply, with any necessary adaptations, to liabilitiesin a manner similar to that in which they apply to assets.

41. (1) Subject to section 24, where a person includesexpenditure in the cost of an asset or liability and laterrecovers the expenditure, the person shall include the amountrecovered in the consideration received for the asset orliability, as the case requires.

(2) Subject to section 24 where a person includes anamount derived as consideration received for an asset orliability and, later refunds the amount, the person mayinclude the amount refunded in the cost of the asset.

(3) Where a person or an associate of a person derives anamount which compensates for or represents

(a)recovery of actual or expected costs or expectedbut not received consideration for an asset orliability; or

(b)a loss in value of an asset or increase in a liability,

subject to any other adjustment made under this Act, thecompensation amount shall be included in the considerationreceived for the asset or liability, as the case requires.

Reversal,quantificationandcompensation ofamounts.

36Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Division II: Realisation of assets

42.(1) For the purposes of determining the cost oftrading stock of a business of a person

(a)no amount shall be included in respect of the repair,improvement or depreciation of depreciable assets;and

(b)subject to the provisions of paragraph (a), theabsorption-cost method shall be used for amountsthat are eligible to be included in the cost of thetrading stock (section 37).

(2) The owner of an asset referred to in subsection (3) mayelect for the cost of the asset to be determined according tothe first-in-first-out method or the average-cost method.Once chosen, the method shall only be changed with thewritten permission of the Commissioner-General.

(3) The assets referred to in subsection (2) shall be tradingstock or any other type of asset specified by theCommissioner-General that are fungible and not readilyidentifiable.

(4) In this section

absorption-cost method means the generallyaccepted accounting principle under which thecost of trading stock is the sum of direct assetcosts, direct labour costs and factory overheadcosts;

average-cost method means the generally acceptedaccounting principle under which costs areallocated to fungible assets of a particular typeowned by a person based on a weighted averagecost of all assets of that type owned by the person;

Cost of tradingstock and otherfungible assets.

37Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

direct labour costs means expenditure incurred bya person on labour that directly relates to theproduction of trading stock;

direct asset costs means expenditure incurred by aperson in acquiring any asset or assets thatconstitutes trading stock or becomes an integralpart of trading stock produced;

factory overhead costs means all expenditureincurred by a person in producing trading stockexcept direct labour and direct asset costs; and

first-in-first-out method means the generallyaccepted accounting principle under which costsare allocated to a fungible asset of a particulartype owned by a person based on the assumptionthat assets of that type owned by the person arerealised in the order of their acquisition.

43.Where a person realises an asset in any of themanners set out in paragraphs (c) to (f) of section 39

(a)the person shall be treated as having parted withownership of the asset and deriving an amount inrespect of the realisation equal to the market valueof the asset at the time of the realisation; and

(b)the person shall be treated as reacquiring the assetand incurring expenditure of the amount referredto in paragraph (a) in the acquisition.

44.Where on death or as part of a divorce settlement orbona fide separation agreement an individual transfers, anasset to a spouse or former spouse and an election for thissection to apply is made by the spouse or former spouse inwriting

(a)the individual shall be treated as deriving anamount in respect of the realisation equal to the netcost of the asset immediately before the realisation;and

Realisation withretention ofasset.

Transfer of assetto spouse orformer spouse.

38Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)the spouse or former spouse shall be treated asincurring expenditure of the amount referred to inparagraph (a) in acquiring the asset.

45.Where an individual realises an asset on death byway of transfer of ownership of the asset to another person

(a)the individual shall be treated as deriving anamount in respect of the realisation equal to the netcost of the asset at the time of realisation; and

(b)the person who acquires ownership of the asset shallbe treated as incurring expenditure of the amountreferred to in paragraph (a) in the acquisition.

46.(1) Subject to this section and sections 44 and 45,where a person realises an asset by way of transfer ofownership of the asset to an associate of the person or byway of transfer to any other person by way of gift

(a)the person shall be treated as deriving an amount inrespect of the realisation equal to the greater of themarket value of the asset or the net cost of the assetimmediately before the realisation; and

(b)the person who acquires ownership of the asset shallbe treated as incurring expenditure of the amountreferred to in paragraph (a) in the acquisition.

(2) Where an individual realises an asset by way of transferof ownership of the asset to an associate of the individual ora charitibale institution and the requirements of subsection(3) are met

(a)the individual shall be treated as deriving anamount in respect of the realisation equal to the netcost of the asset immediately before the realisation;and

(b)the associate or the charitable institution shall betreated as incurring expenditure of the amountreferred to in paragraph (a) in acquiring the asset.

Transfer of assetto an associateor for noconsideration.

Transfer of asseton death.

39Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The requirements specified in subsection (2) shall be

(a)in the case of a transfer to an associate

(i)the associate in relation to theindividual is the individuals child bymarriage or adoption, spouse, parent,grandparent, grandchild, sibling, aunt,uncle, nephew, niece or first cousin;and

(ii)the asset is an interest in land or abuilding situated in Sri Lanka; or

(b)in the case of a transfer to a charitableinstitution, the transfer occurs by way of gift.

(4) Where a person realises an asset, being trading stock,a depreciable asset, an investment asset or a capital asset ofa business, by way of transfer of ownership of the asset to anassociate of the person and the requirements of subsection(5) are met

(a)the person shall be treated as deriving an amount inrespect of the realisation equal to the net cost of theasset immediately before the realisation; and

(b)the associate shall be treated as incurringexpenditure of the amount referred to in paragraph(a) in acquiring the asset.

(5) The requirements specified in subsection (4) are

(a)the person or the associate is an entity;

(b)the asset or assets are trading stock,depreciable assets, investment assets or capitalassets of a business of the associateimmediately after transfer by the person;

40Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)at the time of the transfer

(i)the person and the associate areresidents; and

(ii)the associate or, in the case of anassociate partnership, none of itspartners is exempt from income tax; and

(d)there is continuity of underlying ownershipin the asset of at least fifty per cent.

47.(1) Where a person involuntarily realises an asset inany manner set out in paragraph (a) of section 39 and acquiresa replacement asset of the same type within six months beforeor within one year after the realisation and elects in writingfor this subsection to apply, that person shall be treated as

(a)deriving an amount in respect of the realisationequal to the aggregate of

(i)the net cost of the asset immediately beforethe realisation; and

(ii)the amount, if any, by which amounts derivedin respect of the realisation exceedexpenditure incurred in acquiring thereplacement asset; and

(b)incurring expenditure in acquiring the replacementasset equal to the aggregate of

(i)the amount referred to in paragraph (a)(i); and

(ii)the amount, if any, by which expenditureincurred in acquiring the replacement assetexceeds amounts derived in respect of therealisation.

Involuntaryrealisation ofasset withreplacement.

41Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The Commissioner-General may specify thecircumstances in which the replacement of one security in acompany with another security in the same company or adifferent company (including as a result of merger, demergeror reconstruction) constitutes an involuntary realisation.

48.(1) Subject to section 49 where rights or obligationswith respect to an asset owned by one person are assigned toanother person, including by way of lease of an asset or partthereof, then

(a)where the rights or obligations are permanent, theone person shall be treated as realising part of theasset, but shall not be treated as acquiring any newasset or liability; and

(b)where the rights or obligations are temporary orcontingent, the person shall not be treated asrealising part of the asset or liability, but asacquiring a new asset or incurring a new liability,as the case requires.

(2) Rights or obligations shall be considered permanentwhen they are likely to last for more than fifty years.

49.(1) Where a person grants a mortgage (legal orequitable) or similar form of security over an asset to securea debt owed to another person

(a)the first person shall not be treated as realising theasset or any part of it, but shall be treated as stillowning the asset and as having incurred a liabilitybeing the secured debt; and

(b)the other person shall not be treated as acquiringthe asset or any part of it, but shall be treated onlyas owning the secured debt.

(2) Where an asset is leased under a finance lease, thelessor shall be treated as transferring ownership of the assetto the lessee.

Realisation byseparation.

Transfer by wayof security,finance lease orinstalment sale.

42Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Subject to section 46 where a person transfers an assetunder an instalment sale or, under a finance lease undersubsection (2)

(a)the person shall be treated as deriving an amount inrespect of the transfer equal to the market value ofthe asset immediately before the transfer; and

(b)the person who acquires the asset shall be treated asincurring expenditure of the amount referred to inparagraph (a) in acquiring the asset.

(4) Where a lessee under a finance lease returns the assetto the lessor before ownership passes to the lessee (exceptthe transaction referred to in subsection (2)) the lessee shallbe treated as transferring ownership of the asset back to thelessor.

(5) In this section, finance lease and instalment saleshall have the same meaning as in section 31.

50.The manner and the procedure relating to thepayment of tax on the gain from realisation of an asset maybe specified by the Commissioner- General.

51.(1) Where a person acquires one or more assets byway of transfer at the same time or as part of the samearrangement, the expenditure incurred in acquiring each assetshall be apportioned between the assets according to theirmarket values at the time of acquisition.

(2) Where a person realises one or more assets by way oftransfer at the same time or as part of the same arrangement,the amounts derived in realising each asset shall beapportioned between the assets according to their marketvalues at the time of realisation.

(3) Where a person who owns an asset realises part of it,the net cost of the asset immediately before the realisation

Payment of taxon gains fromrealisation of anasset.

Apportionmentof costs andconsiderationreceived.

43Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

shall be apportioned between the part of the asset realisedand the part retained according to their market valuesimmediately after the realisation.

CHAPTER V

TYPES OF PERSONS

Division I: Individuals and Entities

52.(1) In arriving at the taxable income of an individualor entity for a year of assessment under section 3, theaggregate qualifying payments referred to in the FifthSchedule to this Act shall be deducted.

(2) In arriving at the taxable income of an individual whois resident in Sri Lanka for a year of assessment under section3, the aggregate reliefs referred to in the Fifth Schedule tothis Act shall be deducted.

(3) In arriving at the taxable income of an individual whois not resident in Sri Lanka for a year of assessment but is acitizen of Sri Lanka under section 3, the relief referred to inparagraph 2(a) of the Fifth Schedule to this Act shall bededucted.

Division II: Partnerships

53.(1) Subject to subsection (2), a partnership shall notbe liable to pay income tax with respect to its taxable incomeand shall not be entitled to any tax credit with respect to thatincome, but shall be liable to pay income tax with respect towithholding payments.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to apartnership to the extent that the partnerships taxableincome includes a gain from the realisation of an investmentasset.

Qualifyingpayments andreliefs.

Partnerships.

44Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Partnership income or a partnership loss of apartnership shall be allocated to the partners in accordancewith this Division.

(4) Amounts derived and expenditure incurred in commonby partners shall be treated as amounts derived or expenditureincurred by the partnership and not by the partners.

(5) Assets owned and liabilities owed in common bypartners shall be treated as assets owned or liabilities owedby the partnership and not by the partners and shall be treatedas

(a)in the case of assets, acquired when they begin toowe such assets in that way;

(b)in the case of liabilities, incurred when they beginto owe such liabilities in that way; and

(c)realised when they cease to be so owned or owed inthat way.

(6) Subject to this Act, all business activities of apartnership shall be treated as conducted in the course of asingle partnership business.

(7) Subject to this Act, arrangements between a partnershipand its partners shall be recognised in instances other thanthe following, which shall be taken into account indetermining a partners share under subsection (5) of section55:-

(a)loans made by a partner to a partnership and anyinterest paid with respect thereto; and

(b)services provided by a partner to a partnership(including by way of employment) and any servicefee or income from employment payable withrespect thereto.

45Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(8) Subject to any consequences under section 63, wherethere is a change of partners in a partnership at least twoexisting partners continue with the partnership, thepartnership shall be treated as the same entity both beforeand after the change.

(9) The precedent partner or in the absence of such partnerin Sri Lanka, an agent of the partnership in Sri Lanka, shallwithhold tax in accordance with section 84 and at the rateprovided for in paragraph 10 of the First Schedule to thisAct on each partners share of any partnership income of therelevant partnership year, excluding the share of anypartnership income that includes a gain from the realisationof an investment asset in respect of which tax is payable onassessment by the partnership.

54.(1) Partnership income of a partnership for a year ofassessment shall be the partnerships income from its businessor investment for that year of assessment (sections 6 and 7).

(2) A loss incurred by a partnership for a year of assessmentshall be the partnerships loss from its business or investmentfor the year (subsection (5) of section 19).

55.(1) For the purposes of calculating a partnersincome from a partnership for a year of assessment of thepartner, the partners share of any partnership income shallbe included or the partners share of any partnership loss ofthe relevant partnership year shall be deducted. The relevantpartnership year is the year of assessment of the partnershipending on the last day of or during the year of assessment ofthe partner.

(2) Gains on disposal of an interest of a partner in apartnership shall be treated as income from a business andincluded in calculating the income of the partner from thepartnership and shall be calculated under Chapter IV subjectto the adjustments in section 56.

Partnershipincome or loss.

Taxation ofpartners.

46Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Partnership income or a partnership loss allocated topartners under subsection (1)

(a)shall retain its character as to type and source;

(b)shall be treated as an amount derived or expenditureincurred, respectively, by a partner at the end of thepartnerships year of assessment; and

(c)shall be allocated to the partners proportionatelyto each partners share, unless the Commissioner-General, by notice in writing and for good cause,directs otherwise.

(4) Tax paid under the provisions of this Act and foreignincome tax paid or treated as paid by the partnership withrespect to the partnership income shall be allocated to thepartners, proportionately to each partners share, and shallbe treated as paid by them. The allocation occurs at the timepartnership income is treated as derived by the partners underparagraph (b) of subsection 3.

(5) For the purposes of this section and subject tosubsection (7) of section 53, a partners share shall beequal to the partners percentage interest in any income ofthe partnership as set out in the partnership arrangement.

56.(1) The following shall be included in the cost of apartners membership interest in a partnership:-

(a)amounts included in calculating the partnersincome, under subsection (1) of section 55 at thetime of the inclusion; and

(b)the partners share (subsection (5) of section 55) ofexempt amounts and final withholding paymentsderived by the partnership, at the time the amountor payment is derived.

Cost of andconsiderationreceived forpartnershipinterest.

47Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The following shall be included in the considerationreceived for a partners membership interest in a partnership:-

(a)amounts deducted in calculating the partnersincome, under subsection (1) of section 55 at thetime of deduction;

(b)distributions made by the partnership to the partner,at the time of distribution; and

(c)the partners share (subsection (5) of section 55) ofdomestic or excluded expenditure incurred by thepartnership, at the time the expenditure is incurred.

Division III: Trusts and Unit Trusts

57.(1) Subject to subsection (2), a trust shall be liableto tax separately from its beneficiaries, and

(a)a trust shall be taxed as an entity, except a trust ofan incapacitated individual (not being a minor),which shall be taxed as though it were an individual;and

(b)amounts derived and expenditure incurred by a trustor a trustee (other than as a bare agent or for anabsolutely entitled beneficiary) shall be treated asderived or incurred by the trust and not any otherperson, regardless of whether or not the amount isderived or incurred on behalf of another person andwhether or not any other person is entitled to suchan amount or income constituted by such anamount.

(2) A beneficiary of a trust (instead of the trust) shall beliable to tax on the income of the trust to which thatbeneficiary is presently entitled for the relevant year of

Taxation oftrusts.

48Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

assessment of the trust ending on the last day of or duringthe year of assessment and

(a)amounts derived and expenditure incurred by a trustor a trustee shall be treated as derived or incurredby the beneficiary and not the trust or trustee or anyother person;

(b)each amount shall retain its character as to type andsource;

(c)each amount shall be treated as an amount derivedor expenditure incurred, respectively, by thebeneficiary at the end of the year of assessment ofthe trust;

(d)each amount shall be allocated to the beneficiariesproportionately to each beneficiarys share, unlessthe Commissioner-General, by notice in writing andfor good cause, directs otherwise; and

(e)tax paid under this Act and foreign income tax paidor treated as paid by the trust with respect to thetrust income shall be allocated to the beneficiariesat the time trust income is treated as derived by thebeneficiaries under paragraph (c) proportionatelyto each beneficiarys share, and treated as paid bythem.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (2)

(a)a beneficiary shall be presently entitled tothe income of a trust if the beneficiary has avested and indefeasible interest in the incomeand an immediate right to demand paymentof the income from the trustee of the trust;and

(b)provisions of subsection (2) shall not applyto a trust to the extent that the trusts taxableincome include a gain from the realisation ofan investment asset.

49Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) Assets owned and liabilities owed by a trust or a trustee(other than as a bare agent or for an absolutely entitledbeneficiary) shall be treated as owned or owed by the trustand not any other person.

(5) Separate calculations of income shall be made forseparate trusts regardless of whether they have the sametrustees.

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, arrangementsbetween a trust and its trustees or beneficiaries shall berecognised.

58.(1) Distributions

(a)of a resident trust shall be exempt in the handsof the trusts beneficiaries; and

(b)of a non-resident trust shall be included incalculating the income of the beneficiariesof the trust, except to the extent that thedistribution represents an amount that issubject to tax to the trust or trustee undersubsection (1) of section 57 or a beneficiaryunder subsection (2) of section 57.

(2) Gains on disposal of the interest of a beneficiary in atrust shall be included in calculating the income of thebeneficiary.

59.(1) For the purposes of this Act, every unit trust orevery mutual fund that does not conduct an eligibleinvestment business shall be deemed to be a companyresident in Sri Lanka and the provisions of this Act relatingto companies resident in Sri Lanka shall apply.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisionsof subsection (1)

(a)a unit in any unit trust or a mutual fund shall bedeemed to be a share in that company;

Taxation ofbeneficiaries.

Taxation of unittrusts.

50Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)a unit holder in any unit trust or mutual fund shallbe deemed to be a shareholder in that company;

(c)the income derived by or which arose from oraccrued to the benefit of, the trustee of any unittrust or the custodian of any mutual fund from anyproperty subject to that unit trust or mutual fund orfrom any business carried on by such trustee or suchcustodian for or on behalf of, that unit trust ormutual fund shall be deemed to be the income ofthat company;

(d)any distribution, in any manner whatsoever, of theincome of any unit trust or mutual fund to its unitholders shall be deemed to be a dividenddistributed to the shareholders of that company;and

(e)the paid up value of any unit in any unit trust ormutual fund shall be deemed to be the paid up valueof any share in that company.

(3) Any sum appropriated or paid by way of remunerationto the manager or the trustee of any unit trust or to the manageror custodian of any mutual fund out of the funds of that unittrust or mutual fund shall, for the purposes of section 11 bedeemed to be an expense incurred by that company in theproduction of its income.

(4) Where this section applies, section 57 shall not apply.

Division IV: Companies

60.(1) A company shall be liable to tax separately fromits shareholders.

(2) Subject to the provisions of this Act, all businessactivities of a company shall be treated as conducted in thecourse of a single company business.

Taxation ofcompanies.

51Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, arrangementsbetween a company and its managers or shareholders shallbe recognised.

61.(1) Dividends

(a)distributed by a resident company shall betaxed on the companys shareholders; and

(b)distributed by a non-resident company shallbe included in calculating the income of theshareholders.

(2) Gains on disposal of shares in a company shall beincluded in calculating the income of the shareholder.

62.(1) A non-resident person who carries on businessin Sri Lanka through a Sri Lankan permanent establishmentshall pay tax on the remitted profits earned within the yearof assessment.

(2) A non-resident person who has earned remitted profitsunder subsection (1) shall pay a final tax on the gross amountof the remitted profits to the Commissioner-General inaccordance with the rate set out in the First Schedule to thisAct on or before the thirtieth day succeeding the date ofmaking such remittances.

(3) In this section, remitted profits means amountsremitted or retained abroad out of the profits and income ofthe non-resident person that are subject to income tax in SriLanka, and any amount received outside Sri Lanka by or onbehalf of the non-resident person from conducting businessin Sri Lanka that is subject to income tax in Sri Lanka,excluding dividends paid by a resident company to the non-resident person.

Taxation ofshareholders.

Remittance tax.

52Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Division V: Entities

63.Subject to section 46, where an asset is realised byway of transfer of ownership of the asset by an entity to oneof its members or vice versa

(a)the transferor shall be treated as deriving an amountin respect of the realisation equal to the marketvalue of the asset immediately before the realisation;and

(b)the transferee shall be treated as incurringexpenditure of the amount referred to in paragraph(a) in the acquisition.

64.(1) When the underlying ownership of an entitychanges by more than fifty percent as compared with thatownership at any time during the previous three years, theentity, after the change, shall not be permitted to

(a)deduct financial costs carried forward undersubsection (3) of section 18 that were incurred bythe entity prior to the change;

(b)deduct a loss under subsection (1) of section 19that was incurred by the entity prior to the change;

(c)in a case where the entity has, prior to the change,included an amount in calculating income in termsof subsections (2), (4) or (5) of section 24, claim adeduction under those provisions after the change;or

(d)carry back a loss under subsection (5) of section 25that was incurred after the change to a year ofassessment before the change.

(2) Where a change in ownership of the type referred to insubsection (1) occurs during a year of assessment of an entity,the parts of the year of assessment before and after the changeshall be treated as separate years of assessment.

Change incontrol.

Asset dealingsbetween entitiesand members.

53Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) This section shall not apply to a partnership orcompany that conducts the same business after a change asit conducted before the change for a period of two years afterthe change.

CHAPTER VI

SPECIAL INDUSTRIES

Division I: Petroleum Operations

65.(1) Any individual or entity who or which hasentered into an agreement as a contractor or sub-contractorunder the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of 2003 shall bedeemed to be resident in Sri Lanka over the term of suchcontract or sub contract, as the case may be, for the purposesof this Act.

(2) The turnover from exports and local sales of petroleumexploited under any Petroleum Resources Agreementreferred to in subsection (1), shall be determined on the basisof accepted commercial practices and be subject to anyspecific provisions in the Petroleum Resources Agreements,entered into under the Petroleum Resources Act, No. 26 of2003.

(3) The income, gains and profits from the business ofpetroleum exploitation under any Petroleum ResourcesAgreement referred to in subsection (1), shall be ascertainedafter allowing the following deductions in addition to otherallowable deductions under the provisions of this Act, andshall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any otherprovision of this Act, be chargeable with income tax at theappropriate rate set out in the First Schedule to this Act,provided that the same item of expenditure shall not bededucted more than once:-

(a)payments made to service sub-contractors forconducting petroleum operations;

Petroleumoperations.

54Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)one hundred percent of the cost of acquisition ofany plant, machinery or equipment used for therecovery of petroleum resources, instead of thecapital allowances under section 16. Any proceedsrealised on the sale of such assets shall beconsidered as a receipt from such business;

(c)interest expenses;

(d)royalty paid on petroleum resources recoveredunder any Petroleum Resources Agreement;

(e)all expenses on the development and productionof petroleum, including capital expenses, where adeduction under paragraph (b) above has not beengranted;

(f)in the year of first commercial production, all costsincurred by any contractor in the exploration forunsuccessful wells in exploration blocks under anyPetroleum Resources Agreement, up to andincluding such year of first commercial production;

(g)any costs incurred by any contractor in theexploration for unsuccessful wells in explorationblocks under any Petroleum Resources Agreementin any year of assessment, after the first commercialproduction.

Division II:Financial Institutions and Insurance Entities

66. (1) For the purposes of this Act, a persons activitiesin conducting a banking business shall be treated as abusiness separate from any other activity of the person andthe persons income or loss from the business for a year ofassessment shall be calculated separately.

(2) Where a person conducting a banking business makesspecific provision for a debt claim in accordance with the

Bankingbusiness.

55Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

relevant directives made by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka,the Commissioner-General may specify the extent to whichthat provision shall be deductible, but a person shall notdeduct such provision unless such directives are compliedwith.

(3) In this section, banking business means the bankingbusiness of a financial institution.

67.(1) In the case of a person engaged in the businessof life insurance, whether mutual or proprietary, the gainsand profits from the business on which tax is payable shallbe ascertained by taking the aggregate of

(a)the surplus distributed to share holders from thelife insurance policy holders fund as certified bythe Appointed Actuary functioning within theRegulation of the Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of2000; and

(b)the investment income of the share holder fund lessany expenses incurred in the production of suchincome,

subject to the deductions claimable under section 19 inarriving at the income from the business.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the surplusdistributed to a life insurance policy holder who shares theprofits of a person engaged in the business of life insurancein a given year, as provided in the Regulation of InsuranceIndustry Act, No. 43 of 2000, shall be deemed as gains andprofits of that person from the business and subject to taxaccordingly.

(3) The profits of a non-resident company whether mutualor proprietary, from the business of insurance (other thanlife insurance) shall be ascertained by taking the gross

Insurancebusiness.

56Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

premiums from insurance business in Sri Lanka (less anypremiums returned to the insured and premiums paid onreinsurance) and deducting therefrom a reserve fromunexpired risks at the percentage adopted by the companyin relation to its operations as a whole for such risks at theend of the period for which the profits shall be ascertained,and adding thereto a reserve similarly calculated forunexpired risks outstanding at the commencement of suchperiod, and from the net amount so arrived at, deducting theactual losses (less the amount recovered in respect thereofunder reinsurance), the agency expenses in Sri Lanka and afair proportion of the expenses of the head office of thecompany, due account being taken in each case by set-offagainst such expenses, of any income or profits other thanpremiums.

(4) Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that byreason of the limited extent of the business transacted in SriLanka by a non-resident insurance company, it would beunreasonable to require the company to furnish theparticulars necessary for the application of subsections (1)and (2), the Commissioner-General may notwithstanding theprovisions of such subsections, permit the profits of thecompany to be ascertained by reference to such proportionof the total profits and income of the company as is equal tothe proportion which its premiums from insurance businessin Sri Lanka bears to its total premiums, or on any otherbasis considered equitable in all the circumstances of thecase.

Division III: Non-Governmental Organizations andCharitable Institutions

68.(1) A non-government organization shall payadditional tax of three percent on amounts received ineach year of assessment by way of grant, donation orcontribution or in any other manner at the rate set out in theFirst Schedule.

Non-Governmentalorganizationsand charitableinstitutions.

57Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that anynon-governmental organization is engaged, in any year ofassessment, in

(a)rehabilitation and the provision of infrastructurefacilities and livelihood support to displacedpersons in any area identified by the Governmentfor the purposes of such rehabilitation andprovision; or

(b)any other activity approved by the Minister asbeing of humanitarian in nature, taking intoconsideration the nature and gravity of any disasterand the magnitude of relief required to be providedconsequently,

the Commissioner-General may reduce or remove the taxpayable by such non-governmental organization for thatyear of assessment if it appears that such reduction is justand equitable in all the circumstance of the case.

(3) Where any charitable institution provides in anyyear of assessment institutionalized care for the sick orthe needy and where the Commissioner-General is satisfiedthat the cost of provision of such care is borne by suchcharitable institution, the Commissioner-General may,subject to specified conditions, grant a tax credit againstthe tax payable on the charitable institutions taxableincome for the year of assessment, provided it appears tothe Commissioner-General that such reduction or remissionis just and equitable in all the circumstances of the case.

CHAPTER VII

INTERNATIONAL

Division I: Residence and Sources

69.(1) An individual shall be a resident in Sri Lankafor a year of assessment if the individual

(a)resides in Sri Lanka;

Residentpersons.

58Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)is present in Sri Lanka during the year and thatpresence falls within a period or periods amountingin aggregate to one hundred and eighty three daysor more in any twelve month period that commencesor ends during the year;

(c)is an employee or an official of the Government ofSri Lanka and his spouse is posted abroad duringthe year; or

(d)is an individual who is employed on a Sri Lankaship, within the meaning of the MerchantShipping Act, during the period the individual isso employed.

(2)A partnership shall be resident in Sri Lanka for ayear of assessment if

(a)it was formed in Sri Lanka; or

(b)at any time during the year the management andcontrol of the affairs of the partnership are exercisedin Sri Lanka.

(3) A trust shall be resident in Sri Lanka for a year ofassessment if

(a)it was established in Sri Lanka;

(b)at any time during the year a trustee of the trust isresident in Sri Lanka; or

(c)at any time during the year a person resident in SriLanka directs or may direct senior managerialdecisions of the trust, whether the direction is madealone or jointly with other persons or directly orthrough one or more interposed entities.

59Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) A company shall be resident in Sri Lanka for a year ofassessment if

(a)it is incorporated or formed under the laws ofSri Lanka;

(b)it is registered or the principal office is in Sri Lanka;or

(c)at any time during the year the management andcontrol of the affairs of the company are exercisedin Sri Lanka.

70.(1) An individual who is resident in Sri Lanka onlyby reason of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 69,shall be so resident from the start of the one hundred andeighty three day period. Otherwise, a person who is residentin Sri Lanka during a year of assessment shall be treated as aresident for the whole of the year.

(2) Subject to subsection (4), where a non-resident personbecomes resident in Sri Lanka, the net cost of an asset heldby the person immediately before becoming resident shallbe equal to the market value of the asset at that time.

(3) Subject to subsection (4),when a person resident inSri Lanka ceases to be resident in Sri Lanka, the person shallbe treated as having immediately before the person ceasesto be so resident realised all assets owned by the person andderiving in respect of each an amount equal to the marketvalue of the asset at the time of the realisation.

(4) Provisions of subsections (2) and (3) shall not applyto an asset that is a domestic asset of the person immediatelybefore becoming a resident or after ceasing to be a resident,respectively.

71.(1) Income of a person from an employment that hasa source in Sri Lanka shall be calculated separately fromincome from that employment that has a foreign source.

Change ofresidence.

Source ofincome andquarantining offoreign losses.

60Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Income or loss of a person from a business orinvestment that has a source in Sri Lanka shall be calculatedseparately from income or loss from that business orinvestment that has a foreign source.

(3) A persons income from an employment, business,investment or other source shall be treated as a source inSri Lanka to the extent to which

(a)the amounts directly included in calculating theincome that has a source in Sri Lanka, exceed;

(b)the amounts directly deducted in calculating thatincome that has a source in Sri Lanka.

(4) A persons loss from a business or investment shallhave a source in Sri Lanka to the extent to which the amountsreferred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (3) exceed thosereferred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (3).

(5) A persons income from a foreign source from anemployment shall be calculated as the persons worldwideincome from that employment (calculated notwithstandingsubsection (1)) less any income with a source in Sri Lankafrom that employment.

(6) A persons foreign source of income or loss from abusiness or investment shall be calculated as the personsworldwide income or loss from that business or investment(calculated notwithstanding subsection (2))

(a)less any income with a source in Sri Lanka fromthat business or investment; or

(b)plus any loss with a source in Sri Lanka from thatbusiness or investment.

(7) For the purposes of section 19, a person may deductan unrelieved loss

(a)in the case of a foreign source loss from aninvestment, only in calculating the persons foreignsource income from an investment; and

61Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)in the case of a foreign source loss from a business,only in calculating the persons foreign sourceincome from a business or investment.

72.(1) An amount directly included in calculatingthe income shall be a source in Sri Lanka where it consistsof

(a)consideration received, a gain or an amount, referredto in paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of subsection (2) ofsection 6 or paragraph (b) of subsection (3) ofsection 7 to the extent to which a domestic asset ordomestic liability is involved; and

(b)subject to paragraph (a), a payment that has a sourcein Sri Lanka.

(2) An amount directly deducted in calculating incomeshall have a source in Sri Lanka where it consists of

(a)to the extent to which it relates to domestic assets,an allowance referred to in subsection (1) of section13 or section 16 or expenditure referred to insubsection (1) of section 14;

(b)a loss from the realisation of a capital asset orliability of a business or an investment asset wherethe asset or liability involved shall be a domesticasset or domestic liability; and

(c)subject to paragraphs (a) and (b), a payment thathas a source in Sri Lanka.

73.(1) The following payments shall have a source inSri Lanka:-

(a)payments received in respect of employment

(i)to the extent derived in respect of employmentin Sri Lanka, wherever paid; or

Source directlyto be includedand amounts tobe deducted.

Source ofpayments.

62Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii)if paid by, or on behalf of, the Government ofSri Lanka, wherever the employment is;

(b)dividends paid by a resident company;

(c)interest, charges, annuities, a royalty, technicalservice fee, or similar payment if

(i)paid by a resident person, other than as anexpenditure of a business carried on by theresident person through a permanentestablishment outside Sri Lanka; or

(ii)paid by a non-resident person as anexpenditure of a business carried on by thenon-resident person through a Sri Lankanpermanent establishment;

(d)winnings from lottery, betting, or gambling relatingto a game of chance held in Sri Lanka;

(e)natural resource payments made in respect of orcalculated by reference to natural resources takenfrom land or the sea situated within Sri Lanka or itsterritorial waters;

(f)rent paid for the use of, right to use or forbearancefrom using an asset situated in Sri Lanka;

(g)premiums for general insurance paid to and proceedsfrom general insurance paid by a person in respectof the insurance of any risk in Sri Lanka;

(h)payments received by a person who conducts arelevant transport business in respect of

(i)the carriage of passengers who embark orcargo, mail or other moveable tangible assetsthat are embarked in Sri Lanka, other than asa result of transhipment; or

63Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii)rental of containers and related equipmentwhich are supplementary or incidental tocarriage referred to in subparagraph (i);

(i)payments received by a person who conducts abusiness of transmitting messages by cable, radio,optical fibre or satellite or electroniccommunication in respect of the transmission ofmessages by apparatus established in Sri Lanka,whether or not such messages originate in Sri Lanka;

(j)payments, including service fees, of a type notmentioned in paragraph (c), (h) or (i) for orattributable to service rendered or a forbearancefrom rendering service

(i)in Sri Lanka, regardless of the place ofpayment; or

(ii)where the payer is the Government of SriLanka, irrespective of the place of exercise,rendering or forbearance;

(k)proceeds of life insurance and retirement,termination and pension payments not fallingwithin paragraph (a) if

(i)paid by a resident person, other than as anexpenditure of a business carried on by theresident person through a permanentestablishment outside Sri Lanka;

(ii)paid by a non-resident person as anexpenditure of a business carried on by thenon-resident person through a Sri Lankanpermanent establishment; or

(iii)paid by, or on behalf of, the Government ofSri Lanka;

64Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(l)gifts and other ex gratia payments to the extentreceived in respect of business or investmentconducted with domestic assets; and

(m)payments not mentioned in the above paragraphs

(i)made in respect of the acquisition of adomestic asset, incurring of a domesticliability or realisation of such an asset orliability;

(ii)received in respect of activity conducted or aforbearance from conducting activity inSri Lanka

(iia)except, in relation to a residentperson, to the extent attributable toa foreign permanent establishment;and

(iib)in relation to a non-resident person,to the extent attributable to aSri Lankan permanent establishmentor any other activity (including salesin Sri Lanka of goods andmerchandise) of the same or similarkind as that conducted by the non-resident person through a Sri Lankanpermanent establishment; or

(iii)made to any foreign entertainer or artist foractivity relating to Sri Lanka.

(2) In this Section

relevant transport business means a business ofland, sea or air transport operator or charterercarrying passengers, cargo, mail or othermoveable tangible assets; and

65Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

technical service fee means a service fee formanagerial, technical, or consultancy services,including a fee for the provision of services oftechnical or other personnel.

74.An amount shall be treated as foreign sourced to theextent that it does not have a source in Sri Lanka.

Division II: Double Taxation Agreements and MutualAdministrative Assistance Agreements

75.(1) The Minister may give effect to any doubletaxation agreement or mutual administrative assistanceagreement with a foreign government or governments thathas been approved by Parliament and published in theGazette.

(2) Subject to the provision of subsection (3), where thereis any conflict between the terms of a double taxationagreement having legal effect in Sri Lanka and theprovisions of this Act, the double taxation agreementprevails.

(3) Subject to the provision of subsection (4), where adouble taxation agreement provides that any income from aSri Lankan source is exempt or excluded from tax, or theapplication of the agreement results in a reduction in therate of Sri Lankan tax, the benefit of that exemption,exclusion, or reduction shall not be available to a body that,for the purposes of the agreement, is a resident of the othercontracting state when fifty percent or more of the underlyingownership or control of that body is held by an individual orindividuals who are not residents of that other contractingstate for the purposes of the agreement.

(4) Provision of subsection (3) shall not apply if theresident of the other contracting state is a company listed ona stock exchange in that other contracting state.

Foreign Source.

Double taxationagreements andmutualadministrativeassistanceagreements.

66Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(5) In this section

double taxation agreement means an internationalagreement relating to the avoidance of doubletaxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion;and

mutual administrative assistance agreement meansa tax information exchange agreement orother international agreement for mutualadministrative assistance in relation to taxationmatters.

Division III: Transfer Pricing

76.(1) Any income, gains and profits arising in, derivedor accruing from, or any loss incurred by any person inSri Lanka engaged in any international transaction enteredinto with its associated enterprises shall be ascertainedhaving regard to the arms length price.

(2) For the purpose of this section

(a)any business organization that has a permanentestablishment in Sri Lanka shall be deemed tobe a person for the ascertainment of the income,gains or profits arising in or derived from or anyloss incurred in Sri Lanka from such permanentestablishment;

(b)permanent establishment

(i)in relation to a country with which anagreement has been entered into onavoidance of double taxation means, apermanent establishment defined in anagreement for the relief of doubletaxation where an agreement is in forcebetween the government of Sri Lankaand the government of any territory in

Profits andincome or lossfrominternationaltransactionsbetweenassociates.

67Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

which any person and their agencies,branches or establishments in Sri Lankais resident; or

(ii)in relation to a country with which anagreement has not been entered into onavoidance of double taxation, includesany business connection or a fixedplace of business through which thebusiness of the enterprise is wholly orpartly carried out irrespective of thenumber of days of such business carriedout in Sri Lanka;

(c)any income, gains or profits arising, derived oraccruing from, or any loss incurred in anytransaction between a permanent establishmentand its head office or other related branches inSri Lanka, in which case the permanentestablishment shall be treated as a distinct andseparate entity from its head office and relatedbranches, shall be ascertained having regard tothe arms length price; and

(d)international transaction means a transactionbetween two or more associated enterprises,either one or both of whom are non-residents, inthe nature of purchase, sale or lease of tangibleor intangible property, or provision of services,lending or borrowing of money or any othertransaction having a bearing on the income, gainor profits, losses or assets of such associatedenterprises, and includes any allocation orapportionment of, or any contribution to anycost or expense incurred or to be incurred inconnection with a benefit, service or facilityprovided or to be provided to any one or more ofsuch associated enterprises under any mutualagreement or arrangement between two or moresuch associated enterprises.

68Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Any transaction entered into by an enterprise with aperson, other than an associated enterprise shall, for thepurposes of subsection (1) be deemed to be aninternational transaction entered into between twoassociated enterprises, if there exists a prior agreementbetween such enterprises and other person and, by whichthe terms of such transaction are determined in substancebetween such enterprises and other person which resultsin the reduction of or would have the effect of reducingthe amount of tax payable.

Without prejudice to the generality of the provision ofthis subsection, the allowance for any expense or interestarising from an international transaction shall also bedetermined having regard to the arms length price.

(3) (a) Where it appears to the Transfer Pricing Officerthat the income, gain or profits or the loss referred to insubsection (1), have not been ascertained having regard tothe arms length price, he may initiate a transfer pricingaudit.

(b) Where it appears to an Assistant Commissioner in thecourse of his audit that the income, gain, profits or the lossreferred to in subsection (1) have not been ascertained havingregard to the arms length price he shall refer to the TransferPricing Officer for the determination of arms length priceand if the Transfer Pricing Officer decides to proceed with atransfer pricing audit he shall initiate such transfer pricingaudit.

(c) When determining the arms length price, the TransferPricing Officer may in writing addressed to the person referredto in subsection (1) require him to prove to the satisfactionof the Transfer Pricing Officer, that such income, gain orprofits or such loss, as the case may be, has in fact beenascertained having regard to the arms length price. Wheresuch person fails to so prove, the Transfer Pricing Officermay determine, the arms length price.

69Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d) For the purposes of subsection (1), a Transfer PricingOfficer may give notice in writing to any person requiringhim to furnish within the period specified in such notice,information in relation to any transactions between suchperson and any other persons.

(e) The arms length price shall be determined inaccordance with the arms length principle and on the basisof the application of the most appropriate method as specifiedfor that purpose.

(f) After determining arms length price of the casesinitiated under paragraph (a) or (b) of subsection (2), TransferPricing Officer shall prepare a preliminary order determiningthe arms length price and refer to the Technical ReviewCommittee which is appointed by the DeputyCommissioner-General of the subject of transfer pricing, forreview.

(g) The Technical Review Committee shall review thedetermined arms length price in the preliminary order andshall confirm, reduce or enhance the arms length price andrefer to the Transfer Pricing Officer

(i)a final order, if all the members of the Committeeare in agreement; or

(ii)an interim order in any other circumstances whereall the members of the Committee are not inagreement.

(h) Transfer Pricing Officer shall communicate the finalorder or the interim order as the case may be to such person.

(i) A person, who is dissatisfied with the interim ordermay communicate his dissatisfaction to the DisputeResolution Panel referred to in section 78 of this Act and theDispute Resolution Panel shall issue a final order undersubsection (4) of section 78.

70Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(j) Where person or partner of a partnership has notcommunicated their dissatisfaction on an interim orderreceived to the Dispute Resolution Panel, the interim ordershall be deemed to be a final order.

(k) The Transfer Pricing Officer shall, subject to theprovisions of section 135, assess the amount of income,gain or profits and issue assessment in accordance with thefinal order of the Technical Review Committee or the DisputeResolution Panel as the case may be.

(l) Such person or partner of a partnership who is aggrievedby such assessment made based on the final order, maywithin thirty days of the notice of assessment make an appealto the Commissioner-General under Chapter XIII.

(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply in a casewhere the computation of income under subsection (2) hasthe effect of reducing the income, gain or profits chargeableto tax or increasing the loss, as the case may be, computedon the basis of entries made in the books of account in respectof any year of assessment in which the internationaltransaction was entered into.

(5) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any othersection of this Act or any other law, no exemption or taxbenefit provided under any of the provisions of this Act orany other law, shall be granted in respect of the amount ofincome, gain or profits by which the total income, gain orprofits of the associated enterprises is increased after thecomputation of income, gain or profits under this sectionand in accordance with the arms length price.

(6) An advance pricing agreement may be entered intobetween any person and the Commissioner-General in respectof arms length price for the purposes of this section in themanner that may be specified.

71Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(7) The determination of arms length price referred to insubsection (1) may be subject to safe harbor rules specifiedby the Commissioner-General.

77.(1) Any income, gain or profits arising in, derivedor accruing from, or any loss incurred in by any person inSri Lanka engaged in any transaction, other than transactionsreferred to in subsection (1) of section 76 entered into withits associated enterprises shall be ascertained having regardto the arms length price.

(2)(a) Where it appears to the Assistant Commissionerin the course of his audit, the income, gains orprofits or the loss referred to in subsection (1),have not been ascertained having regard to thearms length price, he may initiate a transferpricing audit.

(b) When determining the arms length price theAssistant Commissioner may in writing addressto the person, referred to in subsection (1) andrequire him to prove to the satisfaction of theAssistant Commissioner, that such profits andincome or such loss, as the case may be, has infact been ascertained having regard to the armslength price. Where such person fails to so prove,the Assistant Commissioner may determine, thearms length price.

(c) For the purposes of subsection (1), the AssistantCommissioner may give notice in writing to anyperson requiring him to furnish within the periodspecified in such notice, information in relationto any transaction between such person and anyother person.

(d) The arms length price shall be determined inaccordance with the arms length principle andon the basis of application of the most appropriatemethod, as specified for that purpose.

Profits andincome or lossfromtransactionsbetweenassociates.

72Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(e) After determining arms length price, the AssistantCommissioner shall prepare a preliminary orderand refer to the Technical Review Committee,for review.

(f) The Technical Review Committee shall reviewthe determined arms length price in thepreliminary order and shall confirm, reduce orenhance the arms length price and refer to theAssistant Commissioner -

(i)a final order, where all the members ofthe Committee are in agreement; or

(ii)a interim order in any othercircumstances where all the membersof the Committee are not in agreement.

(g) Assistant Commissioner shall communicate thefinal order or the interim order as the case may beto such person or partner of such partnership.

(h) A person, who is dissatisfied with the interimorder may communicate his dissatisfaction to theDispute Resolution Panel and the DisputeResolution Panel shall issue a final order undersubsection (4) of section 78.

(i) Where a person has not communicated hisdissatisfaction on an interim order, the interimorder is deemed to be a final order.

(j) The Assistant Commissioner shall subject to theprovisions of section 135 assess the amount ofincome, gain or profits and issue assessment inaccordance with the final order of the TechnicalReview Committee or the Dispute ResolutionPanel as the case may be.

73Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(k) If such a person who is aggrieved by suchassessment made based on the final order, may,within thirty days of the notice of assessmentmake an appeal to the Commissioner-General.

(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply in a casewhere the computation of income, gain or profits undersubsection (2) has the effect of reducing the income, gain orprofits chargeable to tax or increasing the loss, as the casemay be, computed on the basis of entries made in the booksof account in respect of any year of assessment in which thetransaction was entered into.

(4) Notwithstanding anything in any other section of thisAct or any written law, no exemption or tax benefit providedunder any of the provisions of this Act or any written law,shall be granted in respect of the amount of income, gain orprofits by which the total income, gain or profits of theassociated enterprises is increased after the computation ofincome, gain or profits under this section and in accordancewith the arms length price.

(5) The determination of arms length price referred to insubsection (1) may be subject to safe harbor rules.

For the purpose of sections 76 and 77

(a)a person

(i)shall be an associated enterprise ofanother enterprise, if one personparticipates directly or indirectly orthrough one or more intermediaries inthe management, control or capital of theother person; or

(ii)shall be deemed to be an associatedenterprise of another person if one personparticipates directly or indirectly orthrough one or more intermediaries in

74Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

the management, control or capital, insuch manner or to such extent as may bespecified;

(b)a person referred to in paragraph (a) shall includea permanent establishment;

(c)Transfer Pricing Officer means any officer ofthe Inland Revenue Department designated bythe Commissioner-General as a Transfer PricingOfficer;

(d)safe harbor means circumstances in which theCommissioner-General may propose asimplification measure that shall accept thetransfer price declared by a person under certainconditions;

(e)Arms Length Price means for the purpose ofascertaining income, gain or profits arising in,derived or accruing from or losses incurred inany transaction, operation or scheme enteredinto between two associated enterprisescalculated in accordance with the arms lengthprinciple, as that where a connected transactionis carried out taking into account the terms andconditions that would have been used incomparable independent transactions.

78.(1) There shall be a Dispute Resolution Panel(hereinafter referred to as the Panel) for the purpose ofresolution of disputes on interim order. The Panel shall consistof a Chairman and four members and a Secretary appointedby the Commissioner-General. Every member of the Panelso appointed shall hold office for a term not exceeding twoyears, but shall be eligible for reappointment.

DisputeResolutionPanel.

75Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) At the request of the Chairman, the Secretary to thePanel shall summon a meeting of the Panel. The quorum ofa meeting shall consist of three members.

(3) Any person who is dissatisfied with the interim ordermade by the Transfer Pricing Officer or AssistantCommissioner may communicate in writing or by electronicmean by himself or by his authorized representative to theCommissioner-General, his dissatisfaction with such interimorder. Every such communication shall be made to theSecretary to the Panel within fourteen days from the date ofreceipt of such interim order.

(4) Where such person has communicated hisdissatisfaction with the interim order in terms of section 76or 77 as the case may be, to the Commissioner-General, theDispute Resolution Panel shall, within six months of thedate of such communication of dissatisfaction on suchinterim order, make a final order and shall transmit suchorder in writing or by electronic mean to such person. Acopy of such final order shall be sent to the Transfer PricingOfficer or to the Assistant Commissioner, as the case may be,for him to issue the assessment.

(5) A person who is aggrieved by the amount of anassessment made under section 135, may make an appeal tothe Commissioner-General within thirty days of the noticeof assessment and thereupon Chapter XIII of this Act shallapply.

79.No deduction shall be allowed for an amountincurred by a non-resident person as an expenditure of abusiness carried on by the non-resident person through aSri Lankan permanent establishment that represents headoffice expenditure where the amount would exceed ten percent of the persons assessable income.

Division IV: Relief From Double Taxation

80.A resident person (other than a partnership to whichsubsection (1) of section 53 applies or trust to which

Head officeexpenditure.

Foreign taxcredit.

76Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

subsection (2) of section 57 applies) may claim a foreign taxcredit for a year of assessment for any foreign income taxpaid by the person and to the extent to which the foreignincome tax is paid with respect to the persons assessableforeign income for the year.

81. (1) Foreign tax credits claimed under section 80

(a)shall be calculated separately for each yearof assessment and separately for assessableforeign income from each employment,business, investment or other source andfurther separately for each gain from therealisation of an investment asset; and

(b)with respect to each calculation, shall notexceed the average rate of Sri Lankan incometax of the person for the year applied to thepersons assessable foreign income.

(2) A foreign tax credit shall be allowed under this sectiononly if the foreign income tax is paid within two years afterthe end of the year in which the foreign income to which thetax relates was derived by the resident person or within suchfurther time as the Commissioner-General may allow.

(3) Any foreign tax credit or part of a foreign tax creditallowed under this section for a year that is not creditedunder paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of section 2 shall notbe refunded, carried back to the preceding year or carriedforward to the following year and, in the case of the realisationof an investment asset, shall not be credited in relation tothe realisation of another investment asset.

(4) For the purposes of this section

average rate of Sri Lankan income tax of a residentperson for a year of assessment means thepercentage that tax payable by the person under

Calculation offoreign taxcredit.

77Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2(calculated under subsection (3) of section 2without any deduction for any foreign tax credit)is of the taxable income of the person for theyear; and

assessable foreign income means foreign sourceincome included in the assessable income of aresident person for a year of assessment from anemployment, business, investment or othersource as the case requires.

CHAPTER VIII

TAX PAYMENT PROCEDURE

Division I: Methods and Time for Payments

82.(1) Tax imposed under section 2 shall be payableby withholding under Division II, by instalment underDivision III or on assessment under Division IV.

(2) Tax shall be payable-

(a)in the case of tax payable by withholding, atthe time provided for in section 86;

(b)in the case of tax payable by instalment, onthe date by which the instalment is to be paidunder section 90;

(c)in the case of tax payable on assessment

(i)on the date on which the capital gainstax return shall be filed under section93 for a person with taxable incomeconsisting of a gain from the realisationof an investment asset; or

(ii)on the date that is six months after theend of the year of assessment for which

Methods andtime forpayment.

78Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

a return of income shall be filed undersection 93 in relation to tax payableon assessment not covered bysubparagraph (i); and

(d)in any other case not stated in subsection (1),on the date stated in a notice for payment.

Division II: Tax Payable by Withholding

83.(1) The Commissioner-General may specify thecircumstances in which an employer shall withhold tax froma payment that is to be included in calculating the taxableincome of an employee.

(2) The obligation of an employer to withhold taxunder subsection (1) shall not be reduced or extinguishedwhen

(a)the employer has a right or is under an obligationto deduct and withhold any other amount from thepayment; or

(b)any other law provides that an employees incomefrom employment shall not be reduced or subjectto attachment.

84.(1) Subject to subsection (3), a person shall withholdtax at the rate provided for in paragraph 10 of the FirstSchedule to this Act where

(a)such person

(i)pays a dividend, interest, discount, charge,natural resource payment, rent, royalty,premium or retirement payment or paysamounts as winnings from a lottery, reward,betting or gambling; or

Withholding byemployers.

Withholdingfrom investmentreturns.

79Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii)being the precedent partner or in the absenceof such partner in Sri Lanka, the agent of thepartnership in Sri Lanka, at the time that eachpartners relevant share of any partnershipincome of the partnership year undersubsection (9) of section 53 has beenallocated; and

(b)the payment or allocation has a source in Sri Lanka.

(2) The National Gem and Jewellery Authority establishedby the National Gem and Jewellery Authority Act, No. 50 of1993 shall withhold tax at the rate provided in paragraph 10of the First Schedule, from the sale price of any gem sold atan auction conducted by it, from the sum payable to theseller of such gem and at the time of such sum is paid to theseller.

(3) This section shall not apply to

(a)payments subject to withholding undersection 83;

(b)payments made by individuals, unless madein conducting a business;

(c)interest paid to a financial institution on theordinary loans and advances provided by it;or

(d)interest or discount paid to any person onSecurity or Treasury Bond under theRegistered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) or Treasury Bill under theLocal Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter417); or

(e)payments or allocations that are exemptamounts under section 9.

80Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

85.(1) Subject to subsection (3), a person shall withholdtax at the rate provided for in paragraph 10 of the FirstSchedule to this Act where such person

(a)pays a service fee with a source in Sri Lanka to aresident individual who is not an employee of thepayer

(i)for teaching, lecturing, examining,invigilating or supervising an examination;

(ii)as a commission or brokerage to a residentinsurance, sales or canvassing agent;

(iii)as an endorsement fee;

(iv)in relation to the supply of any article on acontract basis through tender or quotation;or(v)for such other matters as may be prescribedby regulation; or

(b)pays a service fee or an insurance premium with asource in Sri Lanka to a non-resident person.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), regulationsmay be made prescribing

(a)that a resident person shall withhold tax when theperson makes a payment to a non-resident personof a type referred to in paragraph (h) or (i) of section73 (land, sea or air transport or telecommunicationservices); and

(b)the rate at which the tax referred to in paragraph (a)shall be withheld.

(3) This section shall not apply to

(a)payments subject to withholding undersection 83;

Withholdingfrom servicefees and contractpayments.

81Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)payments made by individuals, unless madein conducting a business;

(c)payments that are exempt amounts; or

(d)payments of specified fees in respect of whicha certificate is presented by the recipientperson confirming that the payments arechargeable with the Economic ServiceCharge under the Economic Service ChargeAct, No. 13 of 2006..86.(1) Every withholding agent shall pay to theCommissioner-General within fifteen days after the end ofeach calendar month any tax that has been withheld inaccordance with this Division during the month.

(2) Every withholding agent shall file with theCommissioner-General within thirty days after the end ofeach year ending on the thirty first day of March an annualstatement setting out the following:

(a)payments made by the agent during the period thatare subject to withholding under this Division;

(b)the name, address and tax identification number ofthe withholdee;

(c)tax withheld from each payment; and

(d)any other information that the Commissioner-General may specify.

(3) A withholding agent who fails to withhold tax inaccordance with this Division shall however pay the taxthat should have been withheld in the same manner and atthe same time as tax that is withheld.

Statements andpayments of taxwithheld ortreated aswithheld.

82Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) Where a withholding agent fails to withhold tax froma payment as required by this Division

(a)the withholdee shall be jointly and severally liablewith the withholding agent for the payment of thetax to the Commissioner-General; and

(b)the tax shall be payable by the withholdee withinfifteen days after the end of the calendar month inwhich the payment is received.

(5) A withholding agent who withholds tax under thisDivision and pays the tax to the Commissioner-General shallbe treated as having paid the amount withheld to thewithholdee for the purposes of any claim by the withholdeefor payment of the amount withheld.

(6) A withholding agent who fails to withhold tax underthis Division but pays the tax that should have been withheldto the Commissioner-General in accordance with subsection(3) shall be entitled to recover an equal amount from thewithholdee.

87.(1) A withholding agent shall prepare and serve ona withholdee a withholding certificate

(a)separately for each period referred to in subsections(3) and (4);

(b)at the time referred to in those subsections; and

(c)in the form specified.

(2) A withholding certificate shall set out the amount ofpayments made to the withholdee during the period and taxwithheld by the withholding agent from those paymentsunder this Division.

(3) Subject to subsection (4) a withholding certificateshall cover a calendar month and shall be served withinthirty days after the end of the month.

Withholdingcertificates.

83Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) In the case of tax withheld under section 83, awithholding certificate-

(a)shall cover the part of the year during which theemployee is employed; and

(b)shall be served not later than the thirtieth day ofApril of that year or, where the employee has ceasedemployment with the withholding agent during theyear, no more than thirty days from the date onwhich the employment ceased.

(5) A resident company paying a dividend to a membershall also prepare and serve a certificate on that member(whether or not combined with or forming part of, awithholding certificate) setting out the amount of thedividend that is attributable to or derived from, anotherdividend received by that resident company that either wassubject to withholding under section 84 to withholding taxor in respect of which another certificate was received by theresident company under this subsection.

88.(1) For the purposes of this Act, the following shallbe the final withholding payments:-

(a)dividends paid by a resident company to a residentperson;

(b)interest paid to or treated as being derived by

(i)a resident individual (other than such amountof interest paid to a senior citizen fallingwithin the relief threshold in paragraph 2 (d)of the Fifth Schedule to this Act);

(ii)a charitable institution;

(c)amounts paid as winnings from a lottery, reward,betting or gambling, other than amounts received

Finalwithholdingpayments.

84Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

in conducting a business consisting of betting andgaming; and

(d)payments made to non-resident persons that aresubject to withholding under this Division, or wouldbe so subject if paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofsection 84 and paragraph (b) of subsection (3) ofsection 85 were disregarded, other than paymentsderived through a Sri Lankan permanentestablishment.

(2) The following shall relieve a withholdees tax liabilityunder paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 2:-

(a)tax withheld from a final withholding paymentunder this Division; and

(b)tax paid with respect to a final withholding payment inaccordance with subsection (3) or (4) of section 86.

(3) Where a final withholding payment is not subject towithholding (whether by reason of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 84 or paragraph (b) of subsection(3) of section 85 or that the payer is a non-resident) therecipients tax liability under paragraph (b) of subsection(1) of section 2 with respect to the payment shall bepayable by way of instalment and assessment. For thepurposes of applying Divisions III and IV, the liability shallbe treated as a liability under paragraph (a) of subsection (1)of section 2.

89.(1) The withholdee of a payment that is not a finalwithholding payment shall be treated as having paid anytax

(a)withheld from the payment under this Division; or

(b)paid with respect to the payment in accordancewith subsection (3) or (4) of section 86.

Credit for non-finalwithholding tax.

85Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) A withholdee shall be entitled to a tax credit in anamount equal to the tax treated as paid under subsection (1)for the year of assessment in which the payment isderived.

Division III: Tax Payable by Instalment

90.(1) A person who is an instalment payer shall paytax by quarterly instalments if he derives or expects to deriveassessable income during a year of assessment

(a)from a business or investment; or

(b)from an employment where the employer is notrequired to withhold tax under section 83.

(2) An instalment payer shall pay instalments of tax-

(a)in the case of a person whose year ofassessment is a twelve month period endingon the thirty first day of March, on or beforethe fifteenth day respectively of August,November and February in that year ofassessment and the fifteenth day of May ofthe next succeeding year of assessment; or

(b)in any other case, on or before the fifteenthday after each three-month periodcommencing at the beginning of each year ofassessment and a final instalment on or beforethe fifteenth day after the end of each year ofassessment, unless it coincides with the endof one of the three-month periods.

(3) Subject to subsections (4) and (5), the amount of eachinstalment of tax payable by an instalment payer for a year

Payment of taxby quarterlyinstalment.

86Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

of assessment shall be calculated according to the followingformula:

A CB

whereAis the current estimated tax payable undersection 91 or 92 by the instalment payerfor the year of assessment;

Bis the number of instalments remaining forthe year of assessment including thecurrent instalment; and

Cis the sum of any

(a)tax paid during the year ofassessment, but prior to the due datefor payment of the instalment, by theperson by previous instalment underthis section;

(b)tax withheld under Division IIduring the year, but prior to the duedate for payment of the instalment,from payments received by theperson that are included incalculating the persons income forthe year; and

(c)tax paid in accordance withsubsection (3) or (4) of section 86that is paid to the Commissioner-General by a withholding agent orthe person as withholdee during theyear but prior to the due date forpayment of the instalment.

87Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) The Commissioner-General may specify by a GazetteNotification -

(a)that a particular class of persons shall pay tax byinstalments otherwise than or in substitution forinstalments payable under this section;

(b)that a particular class of organised association orrecognized occupational group shall collect fromits members tax payable by those members byinstalment under this section;

(c)the terms and conditions on which the tax shall becollected; and

(d)the terms and conditions on which the associationor group shall account to the Commissioner-Generalfor the tax.

(5) An instalment payer shall be entitled to a tax creditfor a year of assessment in an amount equal to the tax paidby way of instalment for the year.

91.(1) Every person who is an instalment payer for ayear of assessment under section 90 shall file with theCommissioner-General by the date for payment of the firsttax instalment an estimate of tax payable for the year.

(2) The estimate under subsection (1) shall, subject toany instructions by the Commissioner-General to thecontrary

(a)be in the specified manner and form and state

(i)the persons assessable income for the year ofassessment from each employment, businessand investment and the source of that income;

(ii)the persons taxable income for the year andthe tax payable with respect to that income

Statement ofestimated taxpayable.

88Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofsection 2; and

(iii)any other information that the Commissioner-General may specify; and

(b)have attached to it any other information that theCommissioner-General may specify.

(3) Subject to subsection (6) of this section and subsection(3) of section 92, the tax referred to in subparagraph (ii) ofparagraph (a) of subsection (2) shall be the persons estimatedtax payable for the year of assessment.

(4) In estimating tax payable for a year of assessmentunder subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2), aperson may take into account a foreign tax credit to beclaimed under section 80. However, in doing so a personmay take account of foreign income tax only if the personhas paid the tax or the person reasonably estimates that thetax will be paid during the year.

(5) An instalment payers estimate under subsection (1)shall remain in force for the whole of the year of assessmentunless the person files a revised estimate with theCommissioner-General.

(6) A revised estimate filed by a person under subsection(5) shall be the persons estimated tax payable for the year ofassessment, but only for the purposes of calculatinginstalments payable under section 90 after the date therevised estimate is filed with the Commissioner-General.

92.(1) The Commissioner-General may specify bynotice in writing that an instalment payer or class ofinstalment payers is not required to submit an estimate undersection 91.

Statement ofestimated taxpayable notrequired.

89Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Where an instalment payer is not required to submitan estimate by reason of subsection (1), the Commissioner-General shall

(a)make an estimate of the persons estimated taxpayable for the year of assessment, which may bebased on the tax payable for the previous year ofassessment with an uplift; and

(b)serve on the instalment payer a written noticestating the Commissioner-Generals estimate andthe manner in which it is calculated.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General serves a noticeunder subsection (2), for the purpose of section 90 theestimated tax payable by the person for the year of assessmentshall be the amount estimated by the Commissioner-General.

Division IV: Tax Payable on Assessment

93.(1) Subject to section 94 and subsection (2), everyperson shall file with the Commissioner-General not laterthan eight months after the end of each year of assessment areturn of income for the year.

(2) A return of income of a person for a year of assessmentshall subject to any instructions by the Commissioner-General

(a)be in the manner and form specified by theCommissioner-General and furnishing thefollowing details :

(i)the persons assessable income for the yearfrom each employment, business andinvestment and the source of that income;

(ii)the persons taxable income for the year andthe tax payable with respect to that income

Return ofincome andcapital gains.

90Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofsection 2;

(iii)any tax paid by the person for the year bywithholding, instalment or assessment forwhich a tax credit is available under section89 or 90;

(iv)the amount of tax remaining to be paid forthe year calculated as the sum of the taxreferred to in subparagraph (ii) less the taxalready paid referred to in subparagraph (iii);and

(v)any other information that the Commissioner-General may specify;

(b)have attached to it

(i)any withholding certificates supplied to theperson under section 87 with respect topayments derived by the person during theyear; and

(ii)any other information that the Commissioner-General may specify.

(3) Every person with taxable income consisting of a gainfrom the realisation of an investment asset shall file with theCommissioner-General a capital gains tax return not laterthan one month after that realisation.

(4) A capital gains tax return of a person shall, subject toany instructions by the Commissioner-General to theContrary be in the manner and form specified by theCommissioner-General setting out the following :

(i)the persons assessable income consisting of thegain from the realisation of the investment asset,including the calculation of that gain;

91Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii)the persons taxable income with respect to thatgain and the tax payable on it under paragraph (a)of subsection (1) of section 2;

(iii)any tax paid by the person for the year by instalmentattributable to the gain for which a tax credit isavailable under section 90; and

(iv)any other information that the Commissioner-General may specify.

94.(1) Subject to subsection (2), a return of income fora year of assessment shall not be required under section 93from

(a)a resident individual

(i)who has no tax payable for the year underparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2;or

(ii)whose tax payable for the year underparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 2relates exclusively to income fromemployment subject to withholding undersection 83; or

(b)a non-resident person who has no tax payable forthe year under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofsection 2.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commissioner-General may serve a notice in writing on a person requiringthe person to file a return.

(3) Notwithstanding subsection (1) a person may elect tofile a return even though the person is not required to, wherethat person ceased an employment during the year.

95.A return of income or capital gains tax return filedunder section 93 shall result in a self-assessment.

Return ofincome notrequired.

Assessment.

92Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

96.(1) Each trustee of a trust shall be responsible forperforming any duties or obligations imposed by this Acton the trust in relation to its taxable income consisting of again from the realisation of an investment asset, includingthe payment of tax on that gain.

(2) Each partner in a partnership shall be responsible forperforming any duties or obligations imposed by this Acton the partnership in relation to its taxable income consistingof a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, includingthe payment of tax on that gain.

(3) When a trust has more than one trustee, the duties andobligations imposed under this section on the trustee of thetrust shall apply jointly and severally to the trustees butmay be discharged by any of them.

(4) The duties and obligations imposed under this sectionon the partners in a partnership shall apply jointly andseverally to the partners but may be discharged by any ofthem.

(5) The executor shall be responsible for performing anyduties or obligations imposed by this Act in respect of adeceased person in relation to their taxable income consistingof a gain from the realisation of an investment asset, includingthe payment of tax on that gain.

PART II

CHAPTER IX

ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS

Division I: Administration of this Act

97.(1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall beappointed a Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue, suchnumber of Deputy Commissioner-Generals of Inland

Payment of taxon realisation ofinvestment assetsby partnershipsand trusts.

Officers.

93Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Revenue, Senior Commissioners of Inland Revenue,Commissioners of Inland Revenue, Senior DeputyCommissioners of Inland Revenue, Deputy Commissionersof Inland Revenue and Assistant Commissioners of InlandRevenue.

(2) A tax official exercising or performing or dischargingany power, duty or function conferred or imposed on orassigned to the Commissioner- General by any provision ofthis Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to be authorizedby the Commissioner-General to exercise, perform ordischarge that power, duty or function until the contrary isproved.

(3) The Commissioner-General or an officer of theDepartment authorised by the Commissioner-General toperform any functions under this Act shall not be personallyliable in civil proceedings in connection with any act doneby the person in good faith in the discharge of those functions.

(4) The Commissioner-General may specify such formsas the Commissioner-General considers appropriate for thepurposes of this Act.

98. (1) The Commissioner-General may delegate to a taxofficial of the Department a power or duty conferred orimposed on him by this Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General may delegate a power orduty to a specific individual tax official within theDepartment.

(3) Subject to such conditions as the Commissioner-General may specify the Commissioner-General may providethat any information, declaration, or document required tobe furnished to the Commissioner-General is to be suppliedto tax officials as the Commissioner-General may nominate.

Delegation ofpowers.

94Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) A delegation under this section shall not prevent theCommissioner-General from performing a delegated power,duty, or function.

(5) A tax official shall not exercise a power, or perform aduty or function under this Act; that

(a)relates to a person in respect of which the tax officialhas or had a personal, family, business, professional,employment, or financial relationship; or

(b)otherwise presents a conflict of interest.

(6) A tax official exercising or performing or dischargingany power, duty or function conferred or imposed on orassigned to the Commissioner-General by any provision ofthis Act, shall be deemed for all purposes to be authorised toexercise, perform or discharge that power, duty or functionuntil the contrary is proved.

(7) A Commissioner and Senior Deputy Commissionermay exercise any power conferred on any DeputyCommissioner or Assistant Commissioner by any provisionof this Act.

99.(1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Financeshall establish the Inland Revenue Incentive Fund(hereinafter referred to as the Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund in respect of eachyear, such sums as may be appropriated annually byParliament for the purpose of the Fund.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)all sums required for the welfare of officers ofthe Department, in accordance with anyscheme approved by the Minister; and

Inland RevenueIncentive Fund.

95Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)group incentive allowances to any class orcategory of officers of the Department, inaccordance with such scheme as may beapproved by the Minister, to ensure efficiencyin the administration of any Act administeredby the Commissioner-General.

(4) The Commissioner General or any tax official speciallyauthorised by him in that behalf, shall administer the Fundin accordance with the procedure prescribed by theregulations.

100.(1) Except as provided for in subsection (3), (4),(5) or (7) every person having a duty under this Act or beingemployed in the administration of this Act, shall regard assecret and confidential all information and documents theperson has received in an official capacity in relation to aspecific taxpayer, and may disclose that information only tothe following persons:-

(a)the employees of the Department and of theCustoms Department in the course, and for thepurpose, of carrying out their duties;

(b)the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance inthe course, and for the purpose, of carrying outsupervision of the Department;

(c)the Auditor-General or any person authorised bythe Auditor-General, only when such disclosure isnecessary for the purposes of official duties;

(d)tax authorities of a foreign country, in accordancewith an international agreement entered into with aspecific authority;

(e)the Attorney-General for the purpose any criminalproceedings or civil proceedings where actions areinstituted by the State or actions filed against the

Confidentiality.

96Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

State or where the opinion or advice of the Attorney-General has been sought in writing by theDepartment of Inland Revenue;

(f)a court, in a proceeding to establish a taxpayerstax liability or responsibility for an offence;

(g)the Land Reform Commission, only when suchdisclosure is necessary for the purposes of officialduties;

(h)the Controller of Exchange for the purpose ofprosecuting violations of the Exchange ControlAct;

(i)a Commission appointed under the Commissionsof Inquiry Act, in an investigation into the affairsof any person or any persons spouse or child; and

(j)the Commission to Investigate Allegations ofBribery or Corruption established under theCommission to Investigate Allegations of Briberyor Corruption Act, No. 19 of 1994.

(2) A person who is permitted to disclose informationunder subsection (1) shall maintain secrecy except to theminimum extent necessary to achieve the object for whichdisclosure is permitted.

(3) A person who receives information under subsection(1) shall maintain secrecy except to the minimum extentnecessary to achieve the object for which the informationwas received.

(4) The Commissioner-General may disclose informationconcerning a taxpayers affairs to the taxpayer or thetaxpayers authorised representative only after obtainingreasonable assurance of the authenticity of the claim.

97Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(5) Information concerning a taxpayer may be disclosedto another person with the taxpayers written consent.

(6) The obligation as to secrecy imposed by this sectionshall continue to apply in respect of any personnotwithstanding that the person ceases to be appointed underor employed in carrying out the provisions of this Act.

(7) The Commissioner-General may publish a list of thenames of taxpayers

(a)who are in default of tax under section 152;

(b)who have failed to file a return as required; or

(c)on whom an understatement penalty has beenimposed under Chapter XVII.

101.The Commissioner-General may pay anyindividual who provides information that results in theassessment and collection of income not disclosed by anotherperson an amount considered reasonable in thecircumstances from sums appropriated by Parliament for thatpurpose.

Division II: Taxpayer Registration and TaxpayerIdentification Numbers

102.(1) Every person liable to furnish a return of incomefor a year of assessment, and who has not already registered,shall register with the Commissioner-General not later thanthirty days after the end of the basis period for that year.

(2) A person registering under this section, shall submitan application for registration in the form and mannerspecified by the Commissioner-General and provide suchinformation to the Commissioner-General as may be requiredby him under this Act.

Registration.

Informants.

98Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The Minister with the consent of the Commissioner-General may specify additional classes of persons requiredto register under this section.

(4) The Commissioner-General shall register any personwhom the Commissioner-General considers to have fulfilledthe requirements for registration and assign the person aTaxpayer Identification Number (hereinafter referred to asTIN).

(5) Where the Commissioner-General refuses to register aperson who has applied for registration, the Commissioner-General shall serve the person with written notice of therefusal within fourteen days of making the decision withreasons.

103.(1) The Commissioner-General shall assign aunique TIN to every taxpayer which shall be used in allcorrespondence relating to the administration of this Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General may assign a TIN to aperson who is not a taxpayer, but who

(a)makes payments which are subject to tax in thehands of the recipient;

(b)is, or may be, required to file a tax return;

(c)is required under this Act or regulation made underthis Act to furnish a TIN to another person; or

(d)is required to register under subsection (3) of section102.

(3) To the extent specified, a person is required

(a)to include the persons TIN on documentsrelating to a tax to which this Act applies;and

(b)to furnish the TIN to another persondesignated in regulations as a person who is

Taxpayeridentificationnumber.

99Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

required to furnish tax information withrespect to the person furnishing the number.

(4) The Commissioner-General shall include the TIN onall correspondence sent to a taxpayer concerning thetaxpayers tax liability, and the taxpayer shall include theTIN number on returns and correspondence with theCommissioner-General.

(5) A taxpayer shall notify the Commissioner-General inwriting of a change in name (including business name orother trading name), address, place of business, or nature ofthe taxable activity carried on no later than thirty daysfollowing the date of the change.

Division III: Public Rulings

104.(1) To achieve consistency in the administrationof this Act and to provide guidance to the general publicand officers of the Department, the Commissioner-Generalmay issue public rulings setting out the Commissioner-Generals interpretation of the application of this Act.

(2) A public ruling shall be binding on the Commissioner-General until withdrawn.

(3) A public ruling shall not be binding on taxpayers.

105.(1) The Commissioner-General may make a publicruling by publishing a notice of the public ruling in theGazette and on the Departments website.

(2) A public ruling shall state that it is a public ruling andhave a heading specifying the subject matter of the rulingby which it can be identified and an identification number.

(3) A public ruling shall have effect from the date specifiedin the public ruling or, when no date is specified, from thedate the ruling is published in the Gazette and on theDepartments website.

Making a publicruling.

Binding publicrulings.

100Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) A public ruling shall set out the Commissioner-Generals opinion on the application of the provisions ofthis Act in the circumstances specified in the ruling andshall not be a decision of the Commissioner-General for thepurposes of this Act or any other law.

106.(1) The Commissioner-General may withdraw apublic ruling, in whole or part, by publishing a notice of thewithdrawal in the Gazette and on the Departments website.

(2) In the event a public ruling is subsequently found tobe inconsistent in whole or in part with any law such publicruling shall be withdrawn in whole or in part by theCommissioner-General to the extent necessary to overcomesuch inconsistency.

(3) The withdrawal of a public ruling, in whole or part,shall have effect from the date specified in the notice ofwithdrawal.

Division IV: Private Rulings

107.(1) A taxpayer may apply to the Commissioner-General for a private ruling setting out the CommissionerGenerals position regarding the application of this Act to atransaction entered into, or proposed to be entered into, bythe taxpayer.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall appoint a committeeof senior officers of the Department known as theInterpretation Committee to review requests for privaterulings and to issue private rulings as appropriate on behalfof the Commissioner-General.

(3) An application under this section shall be inwriting and -

(a)include full details of the transaction to which theapplication relates together with all documentsrelevant to the transaction;

Private rulings.

Withdrawal of apublic ruling.

101Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)specify precisely the question on which the rulingis required; and

(c)give a full statement setting out the opinion of theapplicant as to the application of this Act to thetransaction.

(4) Subject to section 108, the Commissioner-Generalshall, within ninety days of receipt of the application underthis section issue a private ruling on the question to theapplicant.

(5) If the taxpayer has made a full and true disclosure ofall aspects of the transaction relevant to the making of aprivate ruling and the transaction has proceeded in allmaterial respects as described in the taxpayers applicationfor the private ruling, the private ruling shall be binding onthe Commissioner-General as against the taxpayer identifiedbut shall not be binding on the Commissioner-General asagainst any other taxpayer.

(6) A private ruling shall not be binding on a taxpayer.

(7) The Commissioner-General may specify reasonablefees to be charged in relation to an application for a privateruling.

108.(1) The Commissioner-General may refuse anapplication for a private ruling where-

(a)the Commissioner-General has already decided thequestion that is the subject of the application inany of the following:-

(i)a notice of a tax assessment has been servedon the applicant;

(ii)notice or other guidance issued by theCommissioner-General that is in force; or

Refusing anapplication for aprivate ruling.

102Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(iii)a ruling published under section 111 that isin force;

(b)the application relates to a question that is thesubject of a tax audit in relation to the applicant oran objection lodged by the applicant;

(c)the application is frivolous or vexatious;

(d)the transaction to which the application relates hasnot been carried out and there are reasonablegrounds to believe that the transaction will not becarried out;

(e)the applicant has not provided the tax official withsufficient information to make a private ruling;

(f)in the opinion of the Commissioner-General, itwould be unreasonable to comply with theapplication, having regard to the resources neededto comply with the application and any other mattersthe tax officer considers relevant; or

(g)the making of the ruling involves the applicationof a tax avoidance provision.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall serve the applicantwith a written notice of a decision to refuse to make a privateruling under this section.

109.(1) The Commissioner-General may make a privateruling by serving written notice of the private ruling on therecipient of the ruling.

(2) The Commissioner-General may make a private rulingon the basis of assumptions about a future event or othermatters as considered appropriate.

Making aprivate ruling.

103Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) A private ruling shall state that it is a private ruling,set out the question ruled on, and identify the following:-

(a)the taxpayer;

(b)the tax period to which the ruling applies;

(c)the transaction to which the ruling relates; and

(d)any assumptions on which the ruling is based.

(4) A private ruling is made when the applicant is servedwith written notice of the ruling and the ruling shall remainin force until withdrawn under section 110.

(5) A private ruling shall set out the Commissioner-Generals opinion on the question raised in the rulingapplication and shall not be a decision of the Commissioner-General that can be formally reviewed, appealed or otherwiseobjected to, for the purposes of this Act or any other law. Forthe avoidance of doubt, this subsection shall not limit inany way a taxpayers rights with respect to any tax assessmentserved on the taxpayer to which the ruling relates.

110.(1) The Commissioner-General may, for reasonablecause, withdraw a private ruling, in whole or part, by writtennotice served on the applicant.

(2) In the event a private ruling is subsequently found tobe inconsistent in whole or part with any law, such privateruling shall be withdrawn in whole or part by theCommissioner-General to the extent necessary to overcomesuch inconsistency.

(3) The withdrawal of a private ruling, in whole or part,shall have effect from the date specified in the notice ofwithdrawal.

Withdrawal of aprivate ruling.

104Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

111.(1) The Commissioner-General shall publish aruling made under section 109 on the Departments websiteexcept that the identity of the applicant to whom the rulingrelates must not be indicated in the publication.

(2) When a ruling has been withdrawn in accordance withsection 110, the Commissioner-General shall immediatelypublish a notice of withdrawal on the Departments websitestating that the ruling ceases to be binding with effect fromthe date determined under subsection (3) of section 110.

Division V: Communications, Forms and Notices

112.(1) A notice or statement, issued or an agreemententered into by the Commissioner-General or any taxofficial to a taxpayer or other person shall be effective ifit is authorised by law and in writing, and signed by a taxofficial.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act or any otherlaw, a notice or other document required to be served on aperson by the Commissioner General may be served in thefollowing manner:-

(a)delivering it personally to the person or the personsnominated officer;

(b)delivering it to the persons usual or last knownplace of business or residence in Sri Lanka;

(c)sending it by registered post to the persons usualor last known place of business or residence in SriLanka; or

(d)transmitting it electronically in accordance withsection 113.

Communicationswith taxpayersand otherpersons.

Publication ofprivate rulings.

105Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Where a person

(a)refuses to accept delivery of a letter addressedto the person; or

(b)fails to collect a letter after being informedthat the letter is available for collection at apost office,

the letter shall be treated as having been served on the personon the date on which the person refused to accept deliveryof the letter or was informed that the letter was at the postoffice.

(4) A notice or other document sent by registered mailshall be considered served four days succeeding the daywhen posted where the address is in Sri Lanka and, wherethe address is not in Sri Lanka, twenty days succeeding theday when posted.

(5) A signature written on a notice, statement, agreement,return, form, declaration, table, certificate or other documentand purporting to be the signature of a tax official shall beconsidered to be the signature of that person unless thecontrary is proved.

113.(1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of thisAct, the Commissioner-General may authorise the followingto be done either in writing or electronically through acomputer system or mobile electronic device:-

(a)the lodging of an application for registration underthis Act;

(b)the filing of a tax return or other document underthis Act;

Application ofelectronic taxsystem.

106Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)the payment of tax under this Act;

(d)the paying of a refund under this Act;

(e)the service of any document by the Commissioner-General, with such documents treated as beingserved on the date they are transmittedelectronically; or

(f)the doing of any other act or thing that is requiredor permitted to be done under this Act.

(2) The Commissioner-General may direct a person to doanything referred to in subsection (1) electronically throughthe use of a computer system or mobile electronic device.

(3) The Commissioner-General may specify conditions,including additional conditions, for the effective useof the Revenue Administration Management InformationSystem.

(4) A person who files a tax return and pays taxelectronically under this section shall continue to file taxreturns and pay tax in that manner unless otherwise requiredor permitted by the Act or authorised by the Commissioner-General.

114.(1) The Commissioner-General shall specify theforms, notices, declarations, returns, statements, tables, andother documents and publish them for the efficientadministration of this Act.

(2) The documents referred in subsection (1) shall beavailable to the public on the website of the Department orat its main office and at other locations, or by mail orelectronically, as the Commissioner-General may determine.

Forms andnotices.

107Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

115.The Commissioner-General may specify thecircumstances under which a taxpayer may designate anauthorized representative to communicate with theDepartment on behalf of the taxpayer and shall accept adesignation made in accordance with such circumstances.

116.(1) No notice, assessment, form, certificate, or otherproceeding purporting to be in accordance with the provisionsof this Act shall be quashed, or deemed to be void or voidablefor want of form or be affected by reason of a mistake, defector omission, if it is in substance and effect in conformitywith, or according to the intent and meaning of this Act, andwhere the person assessed or intended to be assessed oraffected thereby, is reasonably described or identified.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),an assessment shall not be affected or impugned by reasonof

(a)a mistake as to the name or surname of the personchargeable, the amount of income assessed, or theamount of tax charged; or

(b)any variance between the assessment and the noticethereof,

if the notice of such assessment is duly served on the personintended to be charged and contains in substance and effectall relevant particulars.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1)and subsection (2), no notice, assessment, form, certificate,or other proceeding purporting to be in accordance with theprovisions of this Act shall be quashed, or deemed to bevoid or voidable or be affected by reason of any variance inthe designation of the tax official who signed or executedsuch notice, assessment, form, certificate or other proceedingas the case may be.

Defect does notaffect validity.

Authorizedrepresentatives.

108Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

117.When a notice of a tax assessment or otherdocument served by the Commissioner-General underthis Act contains a mistake that is apparent from therecord and the mistake does not involve a dispute as tothe interpretation of the law or facts of the case, theCommissioner-General may, for the purposes of rectifyingthe mistake, amend the assessment or other documentany time before the expiry of four years from the dateof service of the notice of the tax assessment or otherdocument.

118.Upon request by a taxpayer, an authorized officerof the Department shall

(a)inform the taxpayer of the status of the taxpayersaccount with respect to tax;

(b)provide a copy of a tax return filed by the taxpayer;and

(c)provide a copy of any written agreement enteredinto with the Commissioner-General.

119.(1) When the last day for performing an actspecified under this Act falls on a day on which theDepartment is not open to the public for business, theact shall be considered timely if it is performed on thenext succeeding day on which the Department is open forbusiness.

(2) A declaration, appeal, or other document, otherthan a payment, shall be considered filed on the date itis stamped, as received by the Department or, in the caseof filing by post, within four days of the date of thepostmark.

Taxpayers rightto information.

Due dates.

Rectification ofmistakes.

109Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

CHAPTER X

RECORD KEEPING AND INFORMATION COLLECTION

120.(1) A taxpayer engaged in business or investmentactivity or required under this Act to make a return shallkeep and maintain in Sri Lanka records and accountssufficient to record all transactions and to ascertain the gainsand profits made or the loss incurred in respect of thosetransactions.

(2) The circumstances under which a person engaged inbusiness or investment activity shall have accounts preparedby an approved accountant and the form by which anapproved accountant shall attest to the accuracy andcompleteness of the accounts prepared shall be prescribedby regulations.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General is of the opinionthat proper records or books of account are not being kept inaccordance with subsection (1) or (2), or where no records orbooks of account are being kept, by any person carrying onbusiness then in addition to prosecution for an offence, theCommissioner-General may direct such person to keep suchrecords or books of account as the Commissioner-Generalmay specify.

(4) The records or books of accounts required by thissection shall be kept at the place of business or investmentactivity of the person unless the Commissioner-Generalapproves of them being kept at some other place.

(5) In addition to the records and accounts referred to insubsections (1) and (2), a taxpayer shall also retain sourcedocuments and underlying documentation utilized in thecreation of the records and accounts.

(6) A person required to prepare or retain records of atransaction under this Act shall retain such records

(a)for a period of five years from the date on which thetransaction took place; or

Accounts andrecords.

110Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)for a period exceeding five years, until expirationof the time limit for assessment of tax for any taxperiod to which the records are relevant and untilany related proceedings have been completed.

(7) Notwithstanding anything in any law, theCommissioner-General may specify a system of simplifiedrecord keeping for small businesses.

(8) Where a person has prepared records required underthis section in a language other than Sinhala, Tamil orEnglish, that person shall at that persons expense, uponrequest, provide a translation acceptable to theCommissioner-General.

(9) Financial statements, invoices, books of original entry,and all written communications between the Department andthe taxpayer shall be in Sinhala, Tamil or English withamounts and values to be provided in Sri Lankan currencyas well.

(10) For the purposes of this section, source documentsinclude sales and purchase invoices, costing documents,bookings, diaries, purchase orders, delivery notes, bankstatements, contracts, and other documents which relate toan element of a transaction.

121.A bank or financial institution shall keep recordsof all transactions with a client, including the clients identity.

122.(1) An authorised officer may enter a businesspremises, or other premises open to the public, without priornotice, for an authorised purpose

(a)during normal business hours; or

(b)at any time authorised in writing by a Magistrateupon application by the Commissioner-General anda showing the necessity to enter at that time.

Obligations ofFinancialInstitutions.

Access toinformation,assets and land.

111Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The authorised officer may enter a taxpayersdwelling, or other premises not referred to in subsection (1),for an authorised purpose

(a)with the consent of the taxpayer; or

(b)at the time stated and in the manner authorised inwriting by a Magistrate upon application by theCommissioner-General and a showing of necessityto enter that time.

(3) An authorised officer may enter on any property forthe purpose of surveying and valuing it

(a)with the consent of the taxpayer; or

(b)after giving not less than twenty-four hours noticein writing.

(4) An authorised officer who lawfully enters a premisesor a dwelling under subsection (1), (2) or (3) may

(a)make a copy of a record;

(b)seize a record or other item that appears to berelevant to an authorised purpose;

(c)seal records or other items;

(d)question any person in the premises or dwellingwith respect to any matter arising under this Act;

(e)open and examine any receptacle where any bookof account, register, record, or other document maybe found and examine and make an inventory ofany materials found therein;

(f)operate any computer and take a record of any datastored within; or

112Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(g)count and make a record of any cash found.

(5) Where an authorised officer seizes a record or otheritem pursuant to the authority provided under this section,the Commissioner-General may make a copy of the recordor other item and shall return the original to the person inthe shortest time practicable.

(6) A copy of a document made pursuant to the powerconferred by this section may be produced in Court andshall have the same evidentiary value as if it were an original.

(7) This section shall not authorise access to premises ofdiplomatic, consular, or other missions of foreign countriesand international organizations which enjoy immunity fromsuch investigations under international law.

(8) Where taxpayer or other specified person fails toprovide any document required by the Commissioner-General under this section or section 123 such documentshall not be used by the taxpayer or other person in a judicialproceeding challenging an assessment, except with theagreement of the Commissioner-General.

(9) The owner or lawful occupier of the premises or placein respect of which power is exercised under this sectionshall provide all reasonable facilities and assistance to theauthorised officer.

(10) A person whose books, records, or other items havebeen seized under this section may examine them and makecopies, at the persons expense, during office hours.

(11) An authorised officer shall sign for all records, books,or other items removed and retained under this section andshall return them to the owner within fourteen days of theconclusion of the investigation or related proceedings.

113Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(12) The Commissioner-General may cause any land tobe visited, inspected, and measured and may call on anyperson to produce for inspection any map, plan, title deed,instrument of title, or other document in the custody or underthe control of that person which relates to the land.

(13) The Commissioner-General shall require a peaceofficer to be present for the purposes of exercising powersunder this section, unless the Commissioner-General is ofthe opinion that the presence of a peace officer shall not benecessary in the circumstances.

(14) In this section-

authorised purpose means

(i) the collection of information for the purposeof determining the liability of person forthe payment of tax;

(ii) the collection of information for the purposeof collecting tax from a specific person; or

(iii) the collection of information related to theinvestigation or prosecution of a specificperson for an offence specified in this Act;and

business premises includes a place where anybusiness is carried on, where anything is donein connection with a business, a dwelling usedfor the maintenance of stocks, keeping ofrecords, signing of contracts or agreements, andattesting of deeds, and any place used formeeting clients.

123.(1) For the purpose of this Act, the AssistantCommissioner may require from the tax payer or theCommissioner may require from any other person, by givingreasonable notice in writing

(a)to furnish any information that is required by thenotice, including information concerning anotherperson;

Notice to obtaininformation.

114Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)to appear at the time and place designated in thenotice for the purpose of being examined or ofproducing documents or other evidence in controlof that person which are referred in the notice; or

(c)to produce, within the time specified in the notice,all documents in the persons custody or under thepersons control relating to the persons or any otherpersons tax affairs as specified in the notice.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1),the Commissioner may require any bank

(a)to furnish to the Commissioner details of anybanking account or other assets which may be heldon behalf of any person, or to furnish a copy ofbank statements of any such banking account; or

(b)to permit the Commissioner or AssistantCommissioner to inspect the records of the bankwith respect to the banking account of any person;or

(c)to furnish annually a schedule showing the amountof interest paid on deposits together with the namesand addresses of the persons to whom such interestaccrued or may require the attendance of any officerof a bank before the Commissioner to give evidencewith regard to any bank account or other assetswhich may be held by the bank on behalf of anyperson.

(3) The provisions of subsection (1) shall extend to thefurnishing of information, the production of documents andthe giving of evidence to the Commissioner or AssistantCommissioner in relation to

(a)the payment of income by any person to a non-resident; or

115Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)the payment of remuneration by an employer to anemployee, the deduction of tax therefrom and theaccounting for any tax so deducted.

(4) The Commissioner or Assistant Commissioner maymake copies of books of account or other documents thatare produced for purposes of this section, or may retain themwhere such course of action appears to the Commissioner-General to be necessary for the purposes of any prosecutionor the substantiation of any assessment.

(5) Subject to subsection (8) of section 122, this sectionshall have effect notwithstanding anything contrary in anywritten law relating to confidentiality, privilege, or thepublic interest with respect to the production of or access todocuments or other evidence, including a law relating tobank secrecy and any contractual duty of confidentiality.

124.(1) For the purposes of determining whether aperson has violated any provisions of this Act, theCommissioner-General or an authorised officer may makean ex parte application to a Magistrate for a search and seizurewarrant.

(2) An application under subsection (1) shall set out thefollowing:-

(a)the provisions of this Act alleged to have beencontravened;

(b)the name of the person alleged to have contravenedthe provisions of this Act;

(c)the premises to be searched; and

(d)the documents sought.

Search andseizure withwarrant.

116Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) When an application is made under subsection (1),Magistrate may issue a search and seizure warrant where heis satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to believe that-

(a)the search and seizure is necessary to determinewhether a person has contravened any provision ofthis Act or committed an offence under this Act;and

(b)any documents (including in electronic format) thatare likely to be found on the premises which mayprovide evidence as to the matters specified inparagraph (a).

(4) A warrant issued under subsection (3) shall, as far as isreasonably practical contain the following information:-

(a)the alleged commission of the offence under thisAct which is the basis for the application;

(b)the person alleged to have contravened anyprovision of this Act or committed an offence underthis Act;

(c)the premises to be searched; and

(d)the documents that are the subject of the search.

125.(1) The owner or lawful occupier of premises towhich access is sought under a search and seizure warrantmay refuse access to the premises where the Commissioner-General or authorised officer fails to produce the warrant.

(2) An authorized officer shall not enter or remain on anypremises which is subject to search and seizure warrant if,upon request by the owner or lawful occupier, the officer isunable to produce an authorisation in writing from theCommissioner-General permitting the officer to exercisepowers under the warrant.

Execution of asearch andseizure withwarrant andsearch withoutwarrant.

117Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) In executing powers under a search and seizurewarrant, the Commissioner-General or authorised officer -

(a)shall have full and free access, at any time andwithout notice-

(i)to the premises specified in the warrant;

(ii)to any relevant material located on thepremises, including in electronic format; and

(iii)to any data storage device located on thepremises containing relevant material;

(b)may open or cause to be opened or removed inconducting a search of the premises specified inthe warrant, anything that the Commissioner-General or authorised officer reasonably suspectsto contain relevant material;

(c)may make an extract, or a paper or electronic copyof any relevant material, including on a data storagedevice;

(d)may seize any relevant material;

(e)may, if a paper or electronic copy of relevantmaterial on a data storage device is not provided,seize and retain the device for as long as isnecessary to copy the information required; and

(f)may search any person on the premises specified inthe warrant.

(4) The owner or lawful occupier of the premises to whichan exercise of search and seizure warrant relates shall provideall reasonable facilities and assistance to the Commissioner-General or authorised officer including the following:-

(a)answering questions, orally or in writing,concerning whether a person has violated theprovisions of this Act; or

118Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)providing access to information necessary todecrypt data to which access is sought in exerciseof a search and seizure warrant.

(5) The Commissioner-General or authorised officershall-

(a)make a written inventory of the relevant materialseized and provide a copy thereof to the owner ofthe material; and

(b)sign for any relevant material or data storage deviceremoved and retained under this section.

(6) An authorized officer may search a person only if suchofficer is of the same sex as the person being searched.

(7) For the purposes of the exercise of powers under thissection, the Commissioner-General or any authorised officermay require a police officer to be present when executing awarrant under this section.

(8) The Commissioner-General or authorised officer shallnot retain any document seized under this section for a periodlonger than six months from the date of seizure unless thedocument is required for the purposes of any proceedingsunder this Act or any other written law.

CHAPTER XI

TAX RETURNS

126.(1) Every person chargeable with income tax underthis Act shall furnish to the Assistant Commissioner inaccordance with subsection (2) a tax return in the specifiedform containing such particulars as may be specified by theCommissioner- General either in writing or by electronicmeans within the stipulated time.

Tax returns.

119Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The Commissioner-General may specify

(a) the form for returns;

(b) the information to be furnished on the returnand attachments, if any, required to be filed withthe return; and

(c) the manner of filing.

(3) An Assistant Commissioner shall not be bound by atax return or information provided by, or on behalf of, ataxpayer and the Assistant Commissioner may determine ataxpayers tax liability based on any sources of informationavailable to the Assistant Commissioner.

(4) A taxpayer or the taxpayers duly authorised agent,shall sign the return, attesting to its accuracy andcompleteness.

(5) Where a return or part of a return was prepared forreward by some other person, including by an approvedaccountant, other than a full-time employee of the taxpayer,that other person shall also sign the return.

(6) An Assistant Commissioner may, by notice in writing,require a person to file, whether on that persons own behalfor as agent or trustee for another person, additional returnsfor a tax period as the Assistant Commissioner requires, evenif the taxpayer has not submitted a return for the period,with that person to be given a period of not less than sevendays to file the additional returns.

127.(1) Where it appears to the Commissioner-Generalthat any person who is liable to furnish a return and has notdone so, the Commissioner-General may, by notice inwriting, require such person to furnish a return within suchtime as may be specified in the notice, not being less thanfourteen days from the date of service of such notice.

Notice torequire filing.

120Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Nothing in this section extends the time limitsprovided under this Act for the furnishing of a return.

128.Every return, statement, or form purporting to befurnished under this Act by or on behalf of any person shallbe deemed to have been furnished by that person or with thepersons authority, as the case may be, unless the contrary isproved, and any person signing such return, statement, orform shall deemed to be cognisant of all matters containedtherein.

129.The provisions of this Act relating to returns shallapply to a person required under this Act to file a return ofinformation related to matters other than the persons owntax liability.

130.(1) The Commissioner-General may extend the timelimit specified for filing a tax return where the taxpayer orother person required to file the return applies for theextension by due date.

(2) The granting of an extension of time under subsection(1) shall not affect the due date for payment of tax, unless anextension of time for payment is also expressly granted.

131.A tax return that is purported to be filed by or onbehalf of a taxpayer shall be treated as having been filed bythe taxpayer or with the taxpayers authority unless thecontrary is proved.

CHAPTER XII

ASSESSMENTS

132.(1) A self-assessment taxpayer who has filed a self-assessment return in the approved form for a tax period shallbe treated, for all purposes of this Act, as having made anassessment of the amount of tax payable as set out in thereturn (including a nil amount) for the tax period to whichthe return relates.

Return deemedto be furnishedby dueauthority.

InformationReturns.

Extension oftime to filereturns.

Tax return dulyfiled.

Self-assessments.

121Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Where a self-assessment taxpayer liable for incometax has filed a self-assessment return in the approved formfor a year of assessment and the taxpayer has a loss for theyear, the taxpayer shall be treated, for all purposes of thisAct, as having made an assessment of the amount of the lossset out in the return.

(3) A tax return in the approved form completed and filedin writing or electronically by a taxpayer shall be a self-assessment return despite the following:-

(a) the form included pre-filled information providedby the Commissioner-General; or

(b) the tax payable is computed electronically asinformation is inserted into the form.

133.(1) Where a taxpayer has failed to file a tax returnfor a tax period as required under this Act, the AssistantCommissioner may, based on such evidence as may beavailable and to the best of his or her judgement, make anassessment (hereinafter referred to as a default assessment)of the tax (including a nil amount) payable by the taxpayerfor the period.

(2) The Assistant Commissioner shall serve a taxpayerassessed under subsection (1) with notice, in writing, of adefault assessment specifying the following:

(a)the amount of tax assessed;

(b)the amount assessed as penalty (if any) payable inrespect of the tax assessed;

(c)the amount of late payment interest (if any) payablein respect of the tax assessed;

(d)the tax period to which the assessment relates;

Defaultassessments.

122Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(e)the due date for payment of the tax, penalty, andinterest being a date that is not less than thirty daysfrom the date of service of the notice; and

(f)the manner of objecting to the assessment.

(3) The service of a notice of a default assessment underthis section shall not change the due date (hereinafter referredto as the original due date) for payment of the tax payableunder the assessment, and late payment penalty and latepayment interest shall remain payable based on the originaldue date.

(4) This section shall apply only for the purposes of a taxthat is collected by assessment.

(5) A default assessment may be made at any time.

(6) Nothing in this section shall relieve a taxpayer frombeing required to file the tax return to which the defaultassessment served under this section relates.

(7) A tax return filed by a taxpayer for a tax period after adefault assessment has been served on the taxpayer for theperiod shall not be a self-assessment return.

134.(1) Subject to subsection (2), the AssistantCommissioner may, based on such evidence as may beavailable and to the best of his judgement, make anassessment (referred to as an advance assessment) of thetax payable by a taxpayer for a tax period.

(2) Subsection (1) shall apply only when:

(a)the taxpayer has not filed a tax return for thetax period; and

(b)the tax is collected by assessment.

Advanceassessments.

123Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) An advance assessment

(a)may be made before the date on which thetaxpayers tax return for the period is due; and

(b)shall be made in accordance with the law inforce at the date the advance assessment wasmade.

(4) The Assistant Commissioner shall serve a taxpayerassessed under subsection (1) with notice, in writing, of theadvance assessment specifying the following:

(a)the amount of tax assessed;

(b)the amount assessed as penalty (if any) payable inrespect of the tax assessed;

(c)the tax period to which the assessment relates;

(d)the due date for payment of the tax and penalty,which may be a date before the tax would otherwisebe due for the tax period; and

(e)the manner of objecting to the assessment.

(5) The Assistant Commissioner may specify in a noticeof an advance assessment that the tax and penalty due shallbe payable immediately.

(6) An advance assessment may be the subject of anamended assessment so that the taxpayer is assessed inrespect of the whole of the tax period to which the advanceassessment relates.

(7) Nothing in this section shall relieve a taxpayer fromthe requirement to file the tax return to which the advanceassessment served under this section relates.

124Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(8) A tax return filed by a taxpayer for a tax period afteran advance assessment has been served on the taxpayer forthe period is not a self-assessment return.

135.(1) Subject to this section, the AssistantCommissioner may amend a tax assessment (referred to inthis section as the original assessment) by making suchalterations or additions, based on such evidence as may beavailable and to the best of his judgement, to the originalassessment of a taxpayer for a tax period to ensure that:

(a)in the case of a loss carried forward under this Act,the taxpayer is assessed in respect of the correctamount of the loss carried forward for the tax period;or

(b)in any other case, the taxpayer is liable for thecorrect amount of tax payable (including a nilamount) in respect of the tax period to which theoriginal assessment relates.

(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Assistant Commissionermay amend a tax assessment under subsection (1):-

(a)in the case of fraud, or gross or wilful neglect by, oron behalf of, the taxpayer, at any time; or

(b)in any other case, within thirty months of:

(i) for a self-assessment, the date that the self-assessment taxpayer filed the self-assessmentreturn to which the self-assessment relates; or

(ii) for any other assessment, the date on whichthe Assistant Commissioner served notice ofthe assessment on the taxpayer.

Amended oradditionalassessments.

125Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Subject to subsection (4), where the AssistantCommissioner has served a notice of an amended assessmenton a taxpayer under subsection (1), the Assistant Commissionermay further amend the original assessment to which theamended assessment relates within the later of:-

(a)four years after:-

(i) for a self-assessment, the date the taxpayerfiled the self-assessment return to which theself-assessment relates; or

(ii) for any other assessment, the date theAssistant Commissioner served notice of theoriginal assessment on the taxpayer; or

(b)one year after the Assistant Commissioner hasserved notice of the amended assessment on thetaxpayer.

(4) In any case to which paragraph (b) of subsection (3)applies, the Assistant Commissioner is restricted to amendingthe alterations or additions made in the amended assessmentto the original assessment.

(5) Where the Assistant Commissioner has made anamended or additional assessment under this section, he shallserve the taxpayer with notice, in writing, of the amendedassessment specifying the following:-

(a)the original assessment to which the amendedassessment relates;

(b)the amount of tax assessed and the basis upon whichthe amended or additional assessment has beenmade;

(c)the amount assessed as penalty (if any) in respect ofthe tax assessed;

(d)the amount of late payment interest (if any) payablein respect of the tax assessed;

126Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(e)the tax period to which the assessment relates;

(f)the due date for payment of any tax, penalty, andinterest being a date that is not less than thirty daysfrom the date of service of the notice; and

(g)the manner of objecting to the assessment.

(6) The service of a notice of an amended assessmentunder this section shall not change the original due date(referred to as the original due date) for payment of the taxpayable under the assessment as determined under this Act,and late payment penalty and late payment interest shallremain payable based on the original due date.

136.(1) A taxpayer who has filed a self-assessmentreturn may apply to the Commissioner-General for makingan amendment to the self-assessment.

(2) An application under subsection (1) shall:

(a) state the amendments that the taxpayer believesare required to be made to correct the self-assessment and the reasons for the amendments;and

(b) be filed with the Commissioner-General withinthe period specified in subparagraph (i) ofparagraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 135.

(3) Where an application has been made under subsection(1), the Commissioner-General may make a decision toamend the self-assessment or to refuse the application.

(4) When the Commissioner-General makes a decision toamend the self-assessment:

(a)the amended assessment shall be made inaccordance with subsection (1) section 135; and

Application formaking anamendment to aself-assessment.

127Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)notice of the amended assessment shall be servedon the taxpayer in accordance with subsection (5)section 135.

(5) Where the Commissioner-General makes a decisionto refuse an application under subsection (1) he shall servethe taxpayer with written notice of the decision with reasonsfor the decision.

(6) Where the Commissioner-General has not made adecision on an application made under subsection (1) withinninety days of the application being filed, theCommissioner-General shall be deemed to have:-

(a)made a decision to disallow the application; and

(b)served the taxpayer with notice of the decision onthe ninetieth day after the application was filed.

CHAPTER XIII

OBJECTIONS AND APPEALS

137.Except as provided for under this Chapter

(a) no decision relating to the payment of a taxunder this Act shall be disputed at the TaxAppeals Commission, in any Court orTribunal or any other proceedings on anyother ground; and

(b) the amount and particulars of everyassessment made by the Commissioner-General in respect of a taxpayer shall betreated as correct and the liability of thetaxpayer shall be determined accordingly.

138.In the event of any conflict or inconsistencybetween the provisions of this Act and the provisions of anyother written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

Objections.

The Act toprevail.

128Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

139.(1) A taxpayer who is dissatisfied with anassessment or other decision may request the Commissioner-General to review the decision.

(2) A request for review shall be made to theCommissioner-General in writing not later than thirty daysafter the taxpayer was notified of the decision, and shallspecify in detail the grounds upon which it is made.

(3) Where the request is an objection against an assessmentwhich has been made in the absence of a return required tobe made, the notice of request relating to the objection shallbe sent together with a return duly made.

(4) The receipt of every request shall be acknowledgedwithin thirty days of its receipt and where so acknowledged,the date of the letter of acknowledgement shall for thepurpose of this section, be deemed to be the date of receiptof such request.

(5) The Commissioner-General shall consider thetaxpayers request and notify the taxpayer in writing of theCommissioner-Generals decision and the reasons for thedecision. Taxpayers request shall be considered by a taxofficial other than the tax official who made the assessmentor other decision.

(6) The Commissioner-General shall give effect to thedecision referred to in subsection (5) by confirming anexisting assessment or making an amended assessment(including for a nil amount) or an additional assessment inaccordance with this Act, or taking such other necessaryaction to give effect to that decision.

(7) Where the Commissioner-General hears the evidenceof a taxpayer or of any other person in respect of the request,a record of such evidence shall be maintained or caused tobe maintained.

AdministrativeReview.

129Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(8) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2), thetaxpayer may make a request for administrative review uponsatisfying the Commissioner-General that owing to absencefrom Sri Lanka, sickness, or other reasonable cause thetaxpayer was prevented from making the request within thirtydays of the event described in subsection (2), and that therehas been no unreasonable delay on the taxpayers part.

140.(1) A person aggrieved by the decision ofadministrative review under section 139 may appeal againstthe decision to the Tax Appeals Commission.

(2) An appeal to the Tax Appeals Commission shall notbe made unless a request for administrative review has firstbeen made, and

(a)a decision has been received from theCommissioner-General; or

(b)ninety days have lapsed since the request foradministrative review was made.

(3) Where the Tax Appeals Commission is satisfied thatthe appellant is overcharged it may reduce the amount ofthe assessment by the amount of the overcharge, and if it issatisfied that the appellant is undercharged, it may increasethe amount of the assessment by the amount of theundercharge, or may confirm or annul the assessment.

(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter XVI,where the Tax Appeals Commission is satisfied that tax inaccordance with its decision upon the appeal may not berecovered, the Tax Appeals Commission may require theappellant to furnish security for payment of the tax, if any,which may become payable by the appellant as may seem tothe Tax Appeals Commission to be proper.

(5) Notice of an appeal under this section shall be givenin writing to the Tax Appeals Commission with a copy tothe Commissioner-General within thirty days from the dateof the decision of the Commissioner-General under section139.

Appeal fromAdministrativeReview.

130Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5), theappellant may appeal against an assessment or other decisionupon satisfying the Tax Appeals Commission that owing toabsence from Sri Lanka, sickness, or other reasonable causethe appellant was prevented from giving notice of appealwithin thirty days as required under subsection (2), and thatthere has been no unreasonable delay on the appellantspart.

141.The burden of proof shall be on the taxpayer orperson making an objection to an assessment to show thatthe assessment is incorrect.

142.Notwithstanding that a request for administrativereview of an assessment has been filed or a taxpayer hasappealed to the Tax Appeals Commission against anassessment, the tax payable under the assessment shall remaindue and payable, unless the Commissioner-General grantsan extension of time under section 151 and may be recovered,despite the request for review or appeal.

143.(1) Subject to the right of the AssistantCommissioner to issue a new or revised assessment undersection 135 and subject to subsection (2), if no request forreview is made within the time permitted by section 139, anassessment shall be treated as final.

(2) If an assessment is treated as final under subsection(1), and the taxpayer timely files an amended return undersection 136, the filing of the amended return has the effectof revising the assessment, but only if the tax shown on theamended return exceeds the tax assessed.

144.(1) Either party to a proceeding before the TaxAppeals Commission who is dissatisfied with the decisionof the Tax Appeals Commission may, within one month afterbeing notified of the decision, file a notice of appeal withthe Court of Appeal; and the party so appealing shall servea copy of the notice of appeal on the other party to theproceeding before the Tax Appeals Commission.

Burden ofproof.

Appeals do notsuspendcollection ofamounts.

Finality ofassessment.

Appeal from adecision of theTax AppealsCommission.

131Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) An appeal to the Court of Appeal shall not be madeunless an appeal request to the Tax Appeals Commissionhas first been made, and

(a)a decision has been received from the Tax AppealsCommission; or

(b)ninety days have lapsed since the request for appealto the Tax Appeals Commission was made and noresponse to the request for appeal has been receivedfrom the Tax Appeals Commission.

(3) An appeal from a decision of the Tax AppealsCommission to the Court of Appeal shall be made only on aquestion of law.

(4) Where an appeal is made from a decision of the TaxAppeals Commission, the Tax Appeals Commission shallprovide a written statement of the decision, including asummary of the evidence, the Commissions finding of thefacts, and their conclusions on the points of law involved.

CHAPTER XIV

LIABILITY FOR AND PAYMENT OF TAX

145.(1) Tax shall be due and payable at the timestipulated under this Act.

(2) Subject to subsection (1), the amount of tax

(a)stated in a notice of assessment to be due; or

(b)deemed to be assessed under Chapter XII,

shall be due and payable on the date stated in thenotice or, in the case described in paragraph (b), onthe due date for the return in question.

(3) Tax shall be paid in the manner and place specifiedby the Commissioner-General.

Liability oftaxpayer anddue date.

132Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonablegrounds to believe that a taxpayer may leave Sri Lanka beforethe due date for payment of an amount that would be dueunder this Act, inform the person by notice in writing thattax is due on the date specified by the Commissioner-General.

(5) Where a taxpayer fails to pay tax on the due date, thetaxpayer shall be liable for any costs incurred by theCommissioner-General in taking action to recover the unpaidtax.

146.(1) For the purposes of this Act, subject tosubsection (2), representative, in respect of a person,means

(a)where the person is an individual under a legaldisability, the guardian or manager who receives oris entitled to receive income on behalf of, or for thebenefit of, the individual;

(b)where the person is a company, a director orprincipal officer of the company or an agent referredto in subsection (4);

(c)where the person is a partnership, a partner;

(d)where the person is a trust, a trustee;

(e)where the person is a body of persons other than apartnership or company, an individual responsiblefor accounting for the receipt and payment ofmoneys or funds on behalf of the body;

(f)where the person is the Government of Sri Lanka,an individual responsible for accounting for thereceipt and payment of moneys or funds on behalfof the Government;

(g)where the person is a public corporation or localauthority in Sri Lanka, an individual responsiblefor accounting for the receipt and payment ofmoneys or funds on behalf of such publiccorporation or local authority;

Liability andobligations ofrepresentatives.

133Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(h)where the person is a foreign government orpolitical subdivision of a foreign government, anindividual responsible for accounting for the receiptand payment of moneys or funds in Sri Lanka onbehalf of the government or political subdivisionof the government; or

(i)where the person is a non-resident, a personcontrolling the persons affairs in Sri Lanka,including a manager of a business of that person inSri Lanka.

(2) Where, in relation to a person, there is more than onerepresentative, described in subsection (1), then that personshall nominate which of them shall serve as therepresentative, but in the absence of a designation all shallserve as representatives pending the designation.

(3) The nomination under subsection (2) shall be of aperson residing in Sri Lanka, unless there is none in relationto the person.

(4) Every company carrying on business in Sri Lankashall be represented for the purposes of this Act by a principalofficer residing in Sri Lanka and where there is none, by anauthorised agent residing in Sri Lanka, and shall notify theCommissioner-General of its appointed representative withinone month after it commences carrying on business in SriLanka, or one month after the representative ceases to qualifyas such.

(5) Where a representative of a person nominated undersubsection (1) is unable to perform duties, the Commissioner-General may, by notice in writing, declare another individualto be a representative of the person for the purposes of thisAct.

(6) Every representative of a person shall be responsiblefor performing duties or obligations imposed by this Act onthe person, including maintaining records, filing returns andother documents, and the payment of tax.

134Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(7) Subject to subsection (9), the tax that, by virtue ofsubsection (6), is payable by a representative of a personshall be recoverable from the representative only to theextent of any assets of the person that are in the possessionor under the control of the representative.

(8) A representative of a person who pays tax owed bythe person shall be entitled to recover the amount so paidfrom the person or to retain the amount so paid out of anymoneys of the person that are in the representativespossession or under the representatives control.

(9) A representative of a tax payer shall be personallyliable for the payment of tax due by the tax payer if, whilethe amount remains unpaid, the representative

(a)alienates, charges, or disposes of moneys receivedor accrued in respect of which the tax is payable; or

(b)disposes of or parts with moneys or funds belongingto the taxpayer that are in the possession of therepresentative or which come to the representativeafter the tax is payable, if the tax could legallyhave been paid from or out of the moneys or funds.

(10) A representative of a tax payer shall not be personallyliable for tax under subsection (9) if-

(a)the monies were paid by the representative onbehalf of a taxpayer and the amount paid haspriority, in law or equity, over the tax payable bythe taxpayer; or

(b)at the time the monies were paid, the representativehad no knowledge, and could not reasonably beexpected to know, of the taxpayers tax liability.

(11) Nothing in this section shall relieve a person fromperforming duties imposed under this Act, notwithstandingany failure to perform such duties by his representative.

135Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(12) Where there are two or more representatives of aperson, the duties or obligations referred to in this sectionshall apply jointly and severally to the representatives butmay be discharged by any of them.

(13) Where

(a) a partnership or other unincorporatedassociation or body is dissolved or otherwiseceases to exist because of the retirement orwithdrawal of one or more, but not all, of itspartners or members, or because of theadmission or a new partner or member;

(b) apart from the provisions of this Act a newpartnership, association, or body, consistingof the remaining members, or of the existingor remaining members and one or more newmembers, thereby comes into existence; and

(c) the new partnership, association, or bodycontinues to carry on the activity that wascarried on by the dissolved partnership,association, or body,

the dissolved partnership, association, or body andthe new partnership, association, or body are, forthe purposes of this Act, shall be deemed to be oneand the same.

(14) Where, after the death of a taxable person or thesequestration of a taxable persons estate, a taxable activitypreviously carried on by the taxable person is carried on byor on behalf of the executor or trustee of the persons estateor anything is done in connection with the termination ofthe taxable activity, the estate of the taxable person, asrepresented by the executor or trustee, shall be deemed forthe purposes of this Act to be the taxable person in respect ofthe taxable activity.

136Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(15) Where a mortgagee is in possession of land or otherproperty previously mortgaged by a mortgagor who is ataxable person, and the mortgagee carries on a taxableactivity in relation to the land or other property, themortgagee shall be deemed, from the date the mortgageetook possession of that land or property until such time asthe mortgagee ceases to be in possession of the land orproperty, to be the taxable person carrying on the taxableactivity.

(16) For the purposes of this Act, where a person is atrustee in more than one capacity, the person shall be treatedas a separate person in relation to each of those capacities.

147.(1) A liability or obligation imposed by this Acton an unincorporated body shall be imposed on the bodyand on any person who is an officer of the body at the timethe liability or obligation is imposed, and the body andeach such officer shall be jointly and severally liable forthat liability or obligation.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, the existence of anunincorporated body and any taxable activity carried on bythe unincorporated body shall be deemed not to be affectedby any change in its members or officers.

(3) A document which is required to be served on anunincorporated body under this Act may be served on anofficer of the body.

(4) Where an offence under this Act has been committedby an unincorporated body, the offence shall be deemed tohave been committed by the officers of the unincorporatedbody.

148.(1) This section shall apply to a company whichis wound up without having satisfied its tax liabilities,including any liability to withhold and remit tax,

Officers ofunincorporatedbodies.

Liability for taxfollowingwinding-up.

137Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) A person who was a shareholder of the company at thetime of the winding-up or during the preceding year shall bejointly and severally liable to pay the unpaid tax to theextent of a distribution of cash or property from the companyreceived as a shareholder within one year prior to its winding-up.

(3) A person liable for tax of a company under this sectionmay invoke any rights as against the Department that wouldhave been available to the company.

149.(1) Where an entity fails to pay tax on time, everyperson who is or has been a manager of the entity at any timesince the relevant time shall be jointly and severally liablewith the entity and every other such person for payment ofthe tax.

(2) Subsection (1) shall apply irrespective of whether theentity has ceased to exist or not.

(3) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to amanager who has exercised the degree of care, diligence,and skill that a reasonably prudent person in the position ofthe manager would have exercised in preventing in the initialand continuing failure to pay tax.

(4) Amounts payable to the Commissioner-General by amanager under this section shall be a personal tax liabilityof the manager.

(5) Where a manager pays tax by reason of a liabilityunder subsection (1), the manager may recover the paymentfrom the entity as a debt due.

(6) A manager of an entity may not be assessed for anamount under this section after the period of limitations forcollecting the relevant tax from the entity has expired.

Managers ofentities.

138Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(7) In this section-

entity means any taxpayer other than apartnership, unincorporated body, or anindividual;

manager of an entity includes a person purportingto act as a manager of the entity and, in the caseof a company, includes a director, the chiefexecutive officer, and the chief financial officerof the company; and

relevant time is six months before the events thatgave rise to the entitys tax liability.

150.(1) Where the amount of tax which has been paidby a taxpayer exceeds the amount of tax assessed or foundto be payable, the Commissioner-General shall

(a)refund the amount against the taxpayers assessedliability to pay tax, interest, late fees, or penaltiesunder this Act; and

(b)unless the taxpayer objects, apply an amountremaining against the taxpayers liability to makeadvance payments of tax that shall become duewithin the succeeding six months.

(2) Subject to subsection (1), refundable amounts shallbe paid to the taxpayer.

(3) A refund or credit may be made under this sectiononly if the taxpayer applies for it within four years of thedate of payment or, if made on the Commissioner-Generalsinitiative, within the specified time period.

151.(1) The taxpayer may apply, on a form specifiedby the Commissioner-General, for an extension of the timefor payment of tax beyond the date on which it is required tobe paid under section 145 of this Act.

Refundableamounts.

Extension oftime forpayment.

139Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The Commissioner-General may, with good cause,extend the time for payment as requested under subsection(1) and may grant an extension period different from theperiod requested by the taxpayer, pending resolution of anappeal, and may make other arrangements to ensure paymentof the tax, including arrangements requiring the person topay the amount due in instalments or by requiring security.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General does not notify theperson who made application under subsection (1), of thedecision in writing within thirty days, the application shallbe deemed to be granted.

(4) Where a taxpayer has been granted an extension undersubsection (1), interest shall be payable notwithstandingthe extension of time.

(5) If an extension is granted by permitting the taxpayerto pay the tax by instalments and the taxpayer defaults inpaying any of the instalments, the amount of the outstandingtax shall become payable immediately.

152.(1) The Commissioner-General may send a noticeto the taxpayer demanding payment when a tax is not paidby the date on which it became due and payable.

(2) The notice shall state:

(a) the name of the taxpayer;

(b) the taxpayer identification number (TIN), ifsuch number has been issued to the taxpayer;

(c) the date of issue of the notice;

(d) the amount of tax, interest, and penalties payable,and the tax period or periods to which they relate;

(e) a demand for payment of these amounts;

Default inpayment.

140Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(f) the place at which payment is to be made; and

(g)that the taxpayer is on notice that, if payment is notmade within twenty one days after service of thenotice, the Commissioner-General has the right toinstitute action to collect the amounts specified inthe notice.

(3) The taxpayer shall be in default, twenty-one days afterservice of the notice in respect of any amounts remainingunpaid as of that date.

(4) Subsection (3) shall not apply where the taxpayerhas

(a)entered into a payment arrangement with theCommissioner-General; or

(b)received an extension pursuant to section 151 andcomplied with terms of the arrangement.

153.(1) This section shall apply to the followingamounts:

(a)withholding tax;

(b)an amount that a payer is required to pay under anotice issued under section 170.

(2) A person owing, holding, receiving, or withholdingan amount to which this section applies shall hold theamount in trust for the Republic of Sri Lanka and, in theevent of the liquidation or bankruptcy of the person, theamount:-

(a)shall not form part of the persons estate inliquidation or bankruptcy; and

(b)shall be paid to the Commissioner-General beforeany distribution of property is made.

Priority of tax.

141Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Notwithstanding any other written law, withholdingtax withheld by a person:-

(a)shall not be subject to attachment in respect of anydebt or liability of the person;

(b)shall be a first charge on the payment or amountfrom which the tax shall be withheld; and

(c)shall be withheld prior to any other deduction thatthe person may be required to make from thepayment or amount under an order of any court orany law.

154.(1) Payments of a specific tax shall be appliedagainst the taxpayers liability in the following order:

(a)interest relating to the tax;

(b)penalties relating to the tax; and

(c)the principal amount of the tax.

(2) The Commissioner-General may apply a tax paymentto any tax which has been assessed and is due

(a)where the taxpayer fails to indicate to which specifictax or taxation period the payment should beapplied; or

(b)where the payment has been collected pursuant.

155.Tax shall be payable in Sri Lanka currency, exceptas otherwise provided in this Act.

CHAPTER XV

INTEREST

156.(1) Procedures for the payment, collection anddispute of a tax shall apply equally to interest relating to atax.

Order ofpayment of taxdebts.

Currency.

General.

142Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Liability for interest under this Act shall be calculatedseparately and shall be in addition to penalties provided bylaw.

(3) If a person has paid interest and an amount to whichthe interest relates is found not to have been payable, theinterest paid on that amount shall be refunded to the person.

157.(1) If an amount of tax is not paid by the due date,the taxpayer shall be liable for interest on the amount forthe period from the due date (determined without havingregard to an extension of time) under section 151 to the datethe tax is paid.

(2) In the case of tax due under a revised assessment, thedue date for the calculation of interest shall be the originaldue date of the tax.

158.(1) Where the Commissioner-General is requiredto refund an interest amount, it shall be paid to the taxpayerfrom the later of

(a)the due date; or

(b)the date the tax was paid,

until the date on which the refundable amount is paid.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), nointerest shall be payable in respect of a refund that is basedon a claim for refund and is paid to the taxpayer within sixtydays of the filing of the claim for refund.

(3) A refundable amount that is applied against anothertax liability under section 150 shall be considered to havebeen paid to the taxpayer on the due date of the liabilityagainst which the refundable amount was applied.

159.(1) The interest rate for payments pursuant tosection 157 shall be one and one-half per cent per month orpart month, compounded monthly.

Interest onunderpayments.

Interest onrefundableamounts.

Interest rate.

143Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The interest rate for payments pursuant to section 158shall be one-half per cent per month or part month,compounded monthly.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and(2), the Minister may vary the interest rate by Order publishedin the Gazette.

CHAPTER XVI

RECOVERY OF TAX

160.The Commissioner-General may proceed with anyremedy under this Chapter once the taxpayer is in defaultpursuant to section 152.

161.Institution of action under this Chapter shall becommenced within five years of the date on which thetaxpayer was in default.

162.(1) Where the Commissioner-General is unable torecover an amount of tax, interest, or penalty due and payableby a person under this Act, the Minister may, onrecommendation of the Commissioner-General and approvalby the Cabinet, order the extinguishment of the liability asa debt due to the Government.

(2) Where the Commissioner-General determines that aperson whose debt was extinguished under subsection (1)has assets that may be attached to recover all or part of theunpaid amounts, the liability for the debt may be reinstatedby an order of the Minister, approved by Cabinet, revokingthe order made under subsection (1).

163.(1) Tax that is due and payable shall be a debt tothe Government and shall be payable to the Commissioner-General.

(2) Where a person fails to pay tax when it is due, theCommissioner-General may commence proceedings in acourt of competent jurisdiction to recover the debtoutstanding in respect of the amount owing.

General.

Period oflimitations forcollection.

Extinguishmentof uncollectibleamounts.

Courtproceedings.

144Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) In any proceedings under this section, the productionof a certificate signed by the Commissioner-General, statingthe name of the defendant and the amount of tax owing,shall be sufficient evidence that the amount is due for thecourt to give judgment in that respect.

(4) In any proceedings for the recovery of tax it shall notbe a defence for the defendant that

(a)the tax, the taxable income or other tax base isincorrect;

(b)the tax charged is excessive; or

(c)the assessment is the subject of objection or appeal.

164.(1) Where a taxpayer fails to pay a tax by the duedate, a lien in favour of the Commissioner-General shall becreated in the amount owing (together with interest, penaltyand costs of collection that may accrue) on all propertybelonging to the taxpayer, and has priority as against allother rights, except as otherwise provided in this section.

(2) The lien referred to in subsection (1) shall arise atmidnight at the commencement of the date of default andshall continue until the liability is satisfied or becomesunenforceable by reason of lapse of time.

(3) The lien imposed under this section shall not be validagainst the interest of a person who is a purchaser from thetaxpayer, a holder of a security interest granted by thetaxpayer, or other lien holder specified in regulations, if theinterest arises

(a)before the person had actual knowledge of the lien; or

(b)before notice of the lien has been duly registeredby the Registrar of the High Court and the Registrarof Lands,whichever occurs first.

Lien.

145Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) The Commissioner-General may file notice of a lienat any time after a taxpayer is determined to be in defaultpursuant to section 152.

(5) The Commissioner-General may specify proceduresfor filing notice of a lien and may specify categories ofinterests against which the lien shall not be valid eventhough notice of the lien has been filed.

(6) At least fifteen days prior to registering a lien with theRegistrar of the High Court and the Registrar of Lands, theCommissioner-General shall send notice of the intention toregister the lien to the taxpayer.

(7) Subsection (6) shall not apply where theCommissioner-General believes that the ability to collecttax is in jeopardy.

(8) The Commissioner-General may file action in the HighCourt to enforce the lien created by this section.

(9) An affected person may apply to the Commissioner-General for a release of the lien on the persons property anda decision by the Commissioner-General not to release alien may be appealed to the High Court.

165.(1) Where the taxpayer is in default, theCommissioner-General may cause execution to be leviedon the taxpayers property but, except when a determinationhas been made under subsection (7) of section 164, theCommissioner-General may proceed to execution only ifthe taxpayer has been served with a notice of intention tolevy execution, and the taxpayer has failed to pay the taxwithin thirty days after service of the notice.

(2) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonablegrounds to believe that the collection of tax is in jeopardy,the Commissioner-General may demand immediate payment

Executionagainsttaxpayersproperty.

146Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

of the tax and, on failure of the taxpayer to pay the taxwithinthe period stated in such demand, may proceed to levyexecution on the taxpayers property immediately,notwithstanding subsection (3) of section 152.

(3) A person (including a bank or other financialinstitution) in possession of, or holding security over,property on which a levy has been made shall, on demand,surrender the property, or discharge the security, to theCommissioner-General, except in respect of the part of theproperty that is already subject to attachment or executionunder judicial process.

(4) A person who fails to comply with the demand shallbe liable to the Commissioner-General in the amount of thevalue of the property or security held, but not in excess ofthe amount for the collection of which the levy is made.

(5) A person complying with the requirements of thissection or of section 170 shall, from the time of compliance,be discharged from an obligation to the taxpayer or anotherperson to the extent of the value of property surrendered, orthe security discharged, to the Commissioner-General andshall not be personally liable for loss or damage incurred asa consequence of compliance.

(6) A levy under this section shall commence within fiveyears of the date on which the taxpayer was in default.

(7) A taxpayers personal effects and householdfurnishings without substantial value shall be exempt froma levy.

166.(1) Unless the Commissioner-General has goodreason to release the seized property, the Commissioner-General shall sell the property seized pursuant to a levy.

(2) The sales proceeds shall be applied first against theexpenses of the levy and sale, then against the liability forpenalties, interest and tax and the excess shall be returnedto the taxpayer.

Sale of seizedproperty.

147Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The Commissioner-General may make conditions withrespect to the procedure on sale by public auction under thepower of sale conferred on the Commissioner-General bythis Act, and may

(a)fix an amount of a deposit to be made by the highestbidder;

(b)reserve a price;

(c)specify a time within which a deposit shall be madeand the events following which it may be forfeited;and

(d)declare, in the event that the highest bidder fails tomake the required deposit or to complete thepurchase within the required time, the next highestbidder to be the highest bidder and purchaser of theproperty.

(4) Seized goods or property shall be sold at public auctionat a time and place as the Commissioner-General may direct,but no sale shall take place within fourteen days of the seizureof the goods or property, unless the goods seized are, in theopinion of the Commissioner-General, of a perishable nature,or the owner of the goods has requested their earlier sale.

(5) All goods seized under this Act shall be deposited insome fit place, or left in the possession of some fit person, asthe Commissioner-General may determine.

(6) The date, time, and place of sale of all goods seizedunder this Act shall be published in the Gazette and noticethereof shall be given to the taxpayer prior to the date of saleunless those goods are being sold before the expiry of thefourteen day period under subsection (4).

(7) For the purpose of seizing and selling goods, a personmay, if expressly authorised in writing by the Commissioner-General, execute a warrant of distress, and if necessary break

148Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

open a building in the day-time to levy such distress; andmay seek assistance from a police officer, when so required,to assist in the execution of a warrant of distress and inlevying the distress.

(8) At the sale of goods or other property, a dulydesignated officer of the Government may bid for andpurchase the goods or other property on behalf of theRepublic of Sri Lanka.

(9) Where goods or property advertised for sale are notsold on the day appointed for the sale, the property may beput up for sale again.

(10) The officer or other person conducting the sale mayreport to the Commissioner-General the result of the saleand the Commissioner-General may direct that, uponpayment of the purchase money the property be conveyedto the purchaser.

(11) Where the Commissioner-General, after review ofthe report provided pursuant to subsection (10), is satisfiedthat there has been fraud or improper conduct in relation tothe sale of a property mentioned in the report or that therelevant tax had been paid prior to the date of sale, theCommissioner-General may declare the sale to be null andvoid.

(12) Upon the execution of the deed of conveyance orthe assignment to the purchaser by the Commissioner-General in accordance with this section, the goods or propertyshall be vested in the purchaser freed and discharged fromall encumbrances arising under this Act.

(13) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Actauthorising the Commissioner-General to sell a property forthe recovery of tax, the conveyance or assignment executedto give effect to the sale shall not affect any interest, or rightof the Republic of Sri Lanka in the property.

149Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

167.(1) Where the Commissioner-General is of opinionthat any person who is a defaulter is about to or likely toleave Sri Lanka without paying:

(a)tax that is payable by that person; or

(b)tax that is payable by a company in which thatperson is a controlling member,

which has become default as assessed upon his or otherwise,he may issue a certificate containing particulars of such taxand the name of such person to a Magistrate, who shall onreceipt thereof issue a direction to the Controller General ofImmigration and Emigration to take such measures as maybe necessary to prevent such person from leaving Sri Lankawithout paying the tax or furnishing security to thesatisfaction of the Commissioner-General, for paymentthereof.

(2) At the time of issue of the certificate to the Magistrate,the Commissioner-General shall issue to such person anotification thereof by registered post. However, the non-receipt of any such notification by such person shall notinvalidate preceedings under this section.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General has reasonablegrounds to believe that the departure from Sri Lanka of anyperson who is a defaulter referred to in subsection (1) isimminent and that sufficient time is not available to act interms of subsection (1), the Commissioner-General may issuea departue prohibition order, in writing, to the ControllerGeneral of Immigration and Emigration stating

(i)the name and address of the person;

(ii)the amount of tax that is or will become payable bythe person or by the company in which the personis a controlling member,

DepartureProhibitionOrder.

150Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

and the Controller General of Immigration andEmigration shall take such measures as may be necessaryto prevent such person from leaving Sri Lanka withoutpaying the tax or furnishing security to the satisfactionof the Commissioner- General, for payament thereof:

Provided however that the Commissioner Generalshall, as soon as may be practicable and in any eventwithin seventy two hours of issuing such departureprohibition Order, make an application to the Magistrateto have the Order confirmed. Such departure prohibitionOrder shall be treated as revoked where no applicationhas been made to the Magistrate within theaforementioned time period.

(4) The production of a certificate signed by theCommissioner-General or a Deputy Commissioner, statingthat the tax has been paid or that security had been furnishedto for the payment of the tax, or payment of the tax to apolice officer in charge of a police station, shall be sufficientauthority for allowing such person to leave Sri Lanka. Anypolice officer to whom the amount of any tax has been paidshall forthwith pay such amount to the Commissioner-General.

168.Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherwritten Law

(a)the trustee in bankruptcy of an individual; or

(b)the liquidator of a company which is being woundup,

shall apply the assets of the bankrupt individual or thecompany, as the case may be, in payment of tax dueunder this Act (whether assessed before or after the date of

Priority inbankruptcy.

151Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

bankruptcy or commencement of winding up) as a privilegeddebt in priority over all debts of that individual orcompany.

169.Where a government department, institution orMinistry is about to make a payment to any person, otherthan a payment in respect of wages or salary, that department,institution or Ministry may apply the whole or part of thatpayment in satisfaction in whole or in part to any amount inrespect of which that person is in default under section 152,and shall notify that person accordingly.

170.(1) If a taxpayer is in default, the Commissioner-General may serve a notice in writing on a third party debtor.

(2) On receiving a notice, the third party debtor shallpay to the Commissioner-General (on account of the taxpayerand by the date specified in the notice) the least of thefollowing three amounts:

(a)the amount in respect of which the taxpayer is indefault;

(b)the money owed by the third party debtor to thetaxpayer; and

(c)the amount specified in the notice.

(3) A notice may be served on a third party debtor inrelation to an amount in a joint account only when:

(a)all the holders of the joint account have unpaid taxliabilities; or

(b)the taxpayer may withdraw funds from the account(other than a partnership account) without thesignature or authorisation of the other accountholders.

Offset againstpayments.

Third partydebtors.

152Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) The date for payment specified in the notice shall notbe before fifteen days following the date the third partydebtor is served with the notice.

(5) On receiving a notice under subsection (1), the thirdparty debtor shall not pay any amount to the taxpayer untilthe Commissioner-General withdraws the notice.

(6) As soon as practicable after service of the notice onthe third party debtor, the Commissioner-General shall servethe taxpayer with a copy of the notice.

(7) Amounts payable to the Commissioner-General by athird party debtor under this section shall be a personalliability of the third party debtor, which may be collected inthe same manner as a tax.

(8) Money owed to a taxpayer shall include

(a) amounts currently owing or that maysubsequently become owing to a tax payer;

(b) amounts held or that may subsequently be heldfor or on account of a tax payer;

(c) amounts held or that may subsequently be heldon account of a third person for payment to atax payer;

(d) amounts held by a person who has authorityfrom a third person to pay the money to a taxpayer; and

(e) in relation to a third party debtor that is afinancial institution, amounts that the taxpayer holds in an account with the institution.

(9) A notice may be served under this section on thetaxpayers employer, requiring the employer to withholdand to pay to the Department, for a specified period, somepart of the future wages or salary that becomes payable tothe tax payer.

153Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(10) The first seventy five thousand rupees of wages permonth shall not be subject to withholding under a noticereferred to in subsection (9).

(11) When the third party debtor fails to pay the amountspecified within the time specified in a notice under thissection, the provisions of this Act apply as if such amountwere tax due and payable by the third party debtor on thedate by which the third party debtor was required to makethe payment to the Commissioner-General.

(12) In this section:

money includes a debt obligation denominatedor payable in money; and

third party debtor, in relation to a taxpayer,means a person who owes money to the taxpayer.

171.(1) A third party who pays to the Commissioner-General, pursuant to section 170 shall be treated as havingacted with the authority of the taxpayer and of all otherpersons concerned.

(2) Subsection (1) shall apply irrespective of a provision tothe contrary in any other written law, contract, or agreement.

(3) A notice issued under section 170 shall cease to haveeffect once the tax or obligations described in it is paid orotherwise satisfied.

(4) If a third party served with a notice under section 170and is unable to comply with the notice by reason of lack ofmoney owing to or held for the taxpayer, the person shallnotify the Commissioner-General by notice hereinafterreferred to as a third party notice.

(5) A third party notice shall

(a) be in writing;

Compliance withnotice.

154Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b) set out the reasons for the inability; and

(c) be filed with the Commissioner-General as soonas practicable after the third party becomesaware of the inability and, in any event, beforethe payment date specified in section 170notice.

(6) On receipt of a third party notice the Commissioner-General may, by notice in writing served on the third party

(a)accept the third party notice and cancel or amendthe notice; or

(b)reject the third party notice.

(7) The filing of a third party notice shall have no effecton the third partys personal liability for amounts unlessand until the Commissioner-General cancels or amends thesection 170 notice.

(8) In this section, third party means a third party debtorserved with a notice under the preceding section.

172.(1) This section shall apply where theCommissioner-General has reasonable cause to believe that:

(a)a taxpayer will not pay the full amount of tax owingwhen due; and

(b)the taxpayer will take steps to frustrate the recoveryof the tax, including the dissipation of thetaxpayers assets.

(2) The Commissioner-General may make an ex-parteapplication to the District Court having jurisdiction, for anorder (hereinafter referred to as an Asset PreservationOrder) for the preservation of the assets of the taxpayer andprohibiting any person holding, controlling or managingassets belonging to the taxpayer from transferring,withdrawing, disposing or otherwise dealing with the assets.

Preservation ofassets.

155Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) The Commissioner-General may take such steps asnecessary to secure the assets of the taxpayer, includingseizure of the assets, pending making an application for anorder under subsection (2), which application shall be madewithin twenty four hours from taking steps to secure thetaxpayers assets.

(4) The District Court shall issue an asset preservationorder when such court is satisfied that the requirements insubsection (1) are satisfied and the order shall be served onthe taxpayer and any person having custody, control ormanagement of the taxpayers assets.

(5) An Asset Preservation Order shall be valid for ninetydays and may be extended by the District Court onapplication by the Commissioner-General.

(6) A taxpayer whose funds are the subject of an AssetPreservation Order may, within fifteen days of being servedwith the order, apply to the District Court to discharge orvary the order.

(7) Where the District Court has issued an AssetPreservation Order, the Commissioner-General shall, withinthirty days of service of notice of the order, determine thetax due by the taxpayer to whom the order relates and servea notice of a tax assessment on the taxpayer and commencerecovery of the tax assessed in accordance with the provisionsof this Act.

(8) An Asset Preservation Order shall automatically expireupon service of a notice of assessment under subsection (7)unless the District Court extends the Order upon applicationby the Commissioner-General under subsection (5).

(9) A person who preserves funds pursuant to an AssetPreservation Order shall be, for all purposes, deemed to haveacted within the authority thereof and such person and allother persons concerned shall be indemnified in respect ofthe actions taken in connection with the Order, against all

156Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

proceedings, civil or criminal and all process, judicial orextrajudicial, notwithstanding any provisions to the contraryin any written law, contract or agreement.

(10) A person who, without reasonable cause, fails tocomply with an Asset Preservation Order served on theperson shall be personally liable for the amount specified inthe Order.

173.(1) Where a taxpayers liability has not beensatisfied after levy of execution on property known to theCommissioner-General, a person who has received assets ofthe taxpayer in a transaction that is not at arms length in theperiod of one year preceding the date of the levy shall besecondarily liable for the tax to the extent of the value of theassets received.

(2) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not apply to anamount for which a person is liable under section 148.

174.(1) When a taxpayer (hereinafter referred to as thetransferor) has a tax liability in relation to a business carriedon by the taxpayer and the taxpayer has transferred all orsome of the assets of the business to an associate (hereinafterreferred to as the transferee), the transferee shall bepersonally liable for the unpaid tax liability (hereinafterreferred to as the transferred liability) of the transferor inrelation to the business.

(2) Provisions of subsection (1) shall not preclude theCommissioner-General from recovering the whole or part ofthe transferred liability from the transferor.

175.(1) A receiver shall be required to notify theCommissioner-General of the receivers appointment withinfourteen days after being appointed.

(2) The Commissioner-General may notify the receiverof the amount that appears to the Commissioner-General to

Non-armslengthtransferees.

Transferred taxliabilities.

Receivers.

157Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

be sufficient to provide for payment of tax owing, or thatwill become owing, by the person whose assets are in thepossession or care of the receiver.

(3) A receiver shall not dispose of an asset situated withinSri Lanka held in the receivers capacity as receiver, withoutthe prior permission of the Commissioner-General.

(4) A receiver shall set aside out of the proceeds of sale ofan asset the amount notified by the Commissioner-Generalunder subsection (2) or a lesser amount as may be agreedwith the Commissioner-General.

(5) A receiver shall be personally liable for the amount oftax notified in subsection (2) to the extent of an amountrequired to be set aside under subsection (4), if the receiverfails to comply with the requirements of this section.

(6) In this section, receiver means a person who, withrespect to an asset situated in Sri Lanka, is

(a)a liquidator of a company or other entity;

(b)a receiver appointed out of court or by a court;

(c)a trustee in bankruptcy;

(d)a mortgagee in possession;

(e)an executor, administrator or heir of a deceasedindividuals estate;

(f)conducting the affairs of an incapacitatedindividual; or

(g)a successor in a corporate reorganisation.

158Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

CHAPTER XVII

PENALTIES

176.(1) This section shall apply to penalties under thisAct.

(2) Procedures for the assessment, payment, collection,and dispute of a tax shall apply equally to penalties relatingto a tax.

(3) A persons liability for a penalty under a section inthis Chapter is separate and distinct from the personsliability, if any, for a penalty under another section of thisAct or any other law and is in addition to interest leviedunder Chapter XV and to a criminal sanction imposed underChapter XVIII.

(4) The burden of proof shall be on the Commissioner-General to show non-compliance with the provisions of thisAct with respect to the imposition of a penalty.

(5) The Commissioner-General may make an assessmentof a penalty charged as if the penalty were tax payable underthis Act, and may specify the date on which the penalty ispayable.

(6) A notice of an assessment of a penalty shall be servedon the person who is laible to the penalty and shall state theamount of the penalty payable, the provision under which itis payable, and the due date for payment, and on service ofthe notice

(a)the notice and the assessment shall be treated as ifthey were a notice and assessment of tax payableunder this Act;

(b)the amount of the penalty specified in the noticeshall be treated as tax payable under this Act; and

(c)the due date for payment is the date specified in thenotice.

Penalties.

159Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(7) A persons liability to pay a penalty shall arise on themaking of an assessment by the Commissioner-General undersubsection (6).

(8) The period of limitations for assessing a penalty shallbe five years after the violation which causes the penalty,except for a violation under section 180, in which case thelimitation for assessing a penalty shall be the same as thelimitation for assessing the tax to which the penalty relates.

(9) If a person liable for a penalty shows reasonable cause,the Commissioner-General may

(a)refrain in whole or in part from assessing thepenalty; or

(b)remit or waive in whole or in part a penalty that hasbeen assessed.

(10) A penalty payable for each day, month or other periodduring which a particular state of affairs exists or continues,shall be payable in full for part of that day, month or otherperiod in which the state of affairs commences, continues orends.

177.A person who fails to register as required by section102 or notify the Commissioner-General as required bysections 103(5) or 146(4) shall be liable for a penalty notexceeding fifty thousand rupees.

178.(1) A person who fails to file a tax return on orbefore the date by which filing is required shall be liable topay a penalty equal to the greater of

(a)five per cent of the amount of the tax owing, plus afurther one per cent of the amount of tax owing foreach month or part of a month during which thefailure to file continues; and

Failure toregister or notifyof changes intaxpayerinformation.

Late filing of taxreturn.

160Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)fifty thousand rupees plus a further ten thousandrupees for each month or part of a month duringwhich the failure to file continues.

(2) The amount of the penalty in respect of a given taxreturn under subsection (1) shall be limited to four hundredthousand rupees.

(3) The penalty under this section shall be treated as anaddition to the tax liability for the tax period to which thereturn relates and may be assessed and collected in the samemanner as the tax for that period.

179.(1) A person who fails to pay all or part of a taxdue for a tax period within fourteen days of the due date, orby the due date specified in the notice of assessment, if later,shall be liable to a penalty equal to twenty per cent of theamount of tax due but not paid.

(2) A person who fails to pay all or part of an instalmentrequired under this Act within fourteen days of the due datefor the instalment shall be liable to a penalty equal to tenper cent of the amount of tax due but not paid.

(3) Where an extension is granted under section 151, aperson shall not be liable to a penalty under subsection (1)unless the extension period expires without payment havingbeen made.

180.Where tax is underpaid, as a result of an incorrectstatement or a material omission in a taxpayers tax return,and that statement or omission is a result of intentionalconduct or negligence on the part of the taxpayer, thetaxpayer shall be liable to a penalty in the amount of

(a)twenty five per cent of the underpayment ifparagraph (b) does not apply; or

Late payment.

Negligent orfraudulentunderpayment.

161Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)seventy five per cent of the underpayment if theamount of the underpayment is

(i)higher than ten million rupees; or

(ii)higher than twenty five per cent of thepersons tax liability for the period.

181.(1) A person who makes a statement to a tax officialthat is false or misleading in a material particular shall beliable for a penalty if an amount properly payable by orrefundable to the person under this Act exceeds or is lessthan the amount that would be payable or refundable if theperson were assessed on the basis that the statement wastrue.

(2) The amount of the penalty for which the person isliable shall be the greater of fifty thousand rupees

(a)if an amount payable by the person would havebeen less if it were determined on the basis of theinformation provided in the statement, the amountby which that amount would have been so reduced;or

(b)if the amount of a refund that the person applied forwould be increased if it were determined on thebasis of the information provided in the statement,the amount by which that amount would have beenso increased.

(3) No penalty shall be imposed under this section if theperson who made the statement did not know and could notreasonably be expected to know that the statement was falseor misleading in a material particular.

(4) A reference in this section to a statement made to a taxofficial shall include a reference to a statement made orally,

False ormisleadingstatements.

162Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

in writing, or in another form to that officer acting in theperformance of the officers duties under this Act, and shallinclude a statement made

(a)in an application, certificate, declaration,notification, return, objection or other documentmade, prepared, given, filed, submitted or furnishedunder this Act;

(b)in any information required to be furnished underthis Act;

(c)in a document furnished to a tax official otherwisethan pursuant to this Act;

(d)in an answer to a question asked of a person by atax official; or

(e)to another person with the knowledge or reasonableexpectation that the statement would be conveyedto a tax official.

(5) A reference in this section to a statement that ismisleading in a material particular shall include a referenceto a statement which contains an omission of a matter orthing from the statement.

(6) This section shall not apply to conduct subject to thepenalty under section 180.

182.(1) A person who fails to maintain properdocuments as required by this Act shall be liable for a penaltyfor each month or part of a month during which the failurecontinues.

(2) The penalty shall be one thousand rupees per day foreach day the failure continues.

(3) Before assessing a penalty under this section, theCommissioner-General shall issue a warning notice, and no

Failure tomaintaindocuments orprovidefacilities.

163Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

penalty shall be due under this section if the taxpayercomplies with the warning notice within the time specifiedin the notice.

(4) A person who fails to render reasonable facilities andassistance to a tax official as required by or under this Actshall be liable for a penalty in an amount not exceeding tenthousand rupees.

183. A person who fails to comply with a notice issuedunder section 170 shall be liable for a penalty of twenty fiveper cent of the difference between the amount payable bythe third party and the amount paid to the Commissioner-General by the due date specified in the section 170 notice.

184.Where any person fails to comply with therequirements, of section 76 or 77 in relation to transactionswith associated enterprises, the Commissioner- General mayimpose on such person

(a)a penalty of a sum not exceeding one per centum ofaggregate value of transactions with associatedenterprises, where required documents have notbeen maintained;

(b)a penalty of a sum not exceeding two hundred andfifty thousand rupees, where required documentshave not been submitted;

(c) a penalty of a sum not exceeding two per centumof aggregate value of transactions with itsassociated enterprises, in case of non-disclosure ofany required information;

(d) a penalty of a sum not exceeding one hundredthousand rupees, where required documents havenot been submitted on the specified date; or

Failure tocomply withthird partynotice.

Transfer pricingpenalties.

164Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(e) a penalty of two hundred per centum of the valueof additional tax where such person has

(i) concealed the particulars of his income, orfurnished inaccurate particulars of suchincome; and

(ii) sought to evade by reason of concealment ofparticulars of his income or the furnishing ofinaccurate particulars of such income,

and by notice in writing require such associated enterprise,to pay such penalty within such period as may be specifiedin such notice.

185.(1) A person who fails to comply with a request forinformation properly made under this Act, within thespecified time, shall be liable for a penalty of an amount notexceeding one million rupees.

(2) Before assessing a penalty, the Commissioner-Generalshall issue a notice of warning, and no penalty shall be dueunder this section where the taxpayer complies with thewarning notice within thirty days of service of the notice.

CHAPTER XVIII

CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS

186.(1) The Commissioner-General may investigate anoffence under this Act.

(2) The Attorney-General or a delegate authorized by theAttorney-General shall prosecute any person who commitsan offence under this Act. Such criminal proceedings shallbe initiated in the name of the Commissioner-General.

(3) Proceedings under this Act shall not affect criminalproceedings that may be brought under any other law.

Failure tocomply withnotice to giveinformation.

Criminalproceedings.

165Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) Where, in respect of a single act, omission or course ofconduct, a person is convicted for more than one offenceunder this Chapter

(a)the maximum term of imprisonment imposed forthe offences shall not exceed a term of five years;and

(b)the person shall not subsequently be prosecutedfor additional offences in relation to the same act,omission or course of conduct.

(5) No penalty shall be payable under Chapter XVII inrespect of an act, omission or course of conduct by a personwhere

(a)the person has been convicted of an offence underthis Chapter in respect of the same act, omission orcourse of conduct; or

(b)the offence has been compounded by the Courtwith the consent of the Commissioner-General.

187.A person who wilfully aids, abets, assists, counsels,incites or induces another person to commit a criminaloffence under this Chapter shall be liable on conviction tothe same punishment as if the offence had been committedby that person.

188.Proceedings under this Chapter may becommenced where the offence alleged involves

(a)the doing of an act, within twelve years after thedoing of the act;

(b)the failure to do an act, within twelve years afterthe failure occurred or, if later, within three yearsafter the Commissioner-General becomes aware ofthe failure; or

Aiding andabetting.

Period oflimitations.

166Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)the non-disclosure or incorrect disclosure by aperson of information relating to that personsliability to pay tax, within three years after thepersons correct liability to tax becomes final forthat tax period.

189.A person who wilfully evades or attempts to evadethe assessment, payment or collection of tax or who wilfullyand fraudulently claims a refund of tax to which the personis not entitled, shall be guilty of an offence and shall beliable on conviction to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two yearsor to both such fine and imprisonment.

190.(1) A person who wilfully impedes or attempts toimpede the Department in the administration of this Actshall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable on convictionto a fine not exceeding one million rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to bothsuch fine and imprisonment.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a person impedes theadministration of this Act if the person

(a)fails to comply with a lawful request by a tax officialto examine documents, records, or data within thecontrol of the person;

(b)fails to comply with a lawful request by a tax officialto have the person appear before officials of theDepartment;

(c)interferes with the lawful right of a tax official toenter into premises;

(d)fails to file a return;

(e)uses a false taxpayer identification number or ataxpayer identification number that does not applyto the person;

Tax evasion.

Impeding taxadministration.

167Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(f)refuses to allow the Commissioner-General orauthorized officer to inspect or measure land orrefuses to deliver for inspection any map, plan, titledeed, instrument of title or other document;

(g)makes a statement to a tax official that is false ormisleading in a material particular;

(h)fails to comply with a notice issued under section170;

(i)fails to maintain required records; or

(j)otherwise impedes the determination, assessmentor collection of tax.

191.A person who contravenes subsection (2) or (3) ofsection 100 shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liableon conviction to a fine not exceeding one million rupees orto imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or toboth such fine and imprisonment.

192. A tax official who, in carrying out the provisions ofthis Act

(a)directly or indirectly asks for or takes, in connectionwith the officers duties, a payment or reward,whether pecuniary or otherwise or a promise orsecurity for the payment or reward, not being apayment or reward which the officer is lawfullyentitled to receive; or

(b)enters into or acquiesces in an agreement to do,permit, conceal or connive at an act or thing thatis contrary to the provisions of this Act or to theproper execution of the officers duty or that hasthe effect that the tax revenue is or may bedefrauded,

commits an offence and shall be liable on convictionto a fine not exceeding one million rupees or toimprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both

Failure topreservesecrecy.

Offences by taxofficials.

168Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

such fine and imprisonment and the Court may, in additionto imposing a fine, order the convicted person to pay to theCommissioner-General an amount of tax that has not beenpaid as a result of the officers wrongdoing and whichcannot reasonably be recovered from the person liable forthe tax.

193.(1) Where a person has committed an offence underthis Chapter, other than an offence under section 191 or192, the Commissioner-General may, at any time prior tothe commencement of the hearing by a Court of theproceedings relating thereto, compound the offence andorder the person to pay the sum of money as specified by theCommissioner-General, not exceeding the maximum amountof the fine specified for the offence.

(2) The Commissioner-General may compound an offenceunder this section only if the person concerned requests theCommissioner-General in writing to do so.

(3) Where the Commissioner-General compounds anoffence under this section, the order referred to in subsection(1) shall

(a)be in writing and have attached the written requestreferred to in subsection (2);

(b)specify

(i) the offence committed;

(ii) the sum of money to be paid; and

(iii) the due date for the payment; and

(c)be served on the person who committed the offence.

(4) An order under subsection (3) shall be final and shallnot be subject to appeal.

Compoundingof offences.

169Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(5) Where the Commissioner-General compounds anoffence under this section, the offender shall not be liablefor prosecution or penalty in respect of that offence.

(6) The Commissioner-Generals power under this sectionshall be subject to the powers of the Attorney-General underthe Constitution and the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979, and the Commissioner-General shall givethe Attorney-General a copy of the order referred to insubsection (3) at the time it is served on the taxpayer.

(7) The amount ordered to be paid under subsection (1)shall be recoverable as if it were tax due and payable underthis Act.

CHAPTER XIX

REGULATIONS

194.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act and for matters authorised to be madeor prescribed under this Act.

(2) A regulation made under this section, other than aregulation

(a)prescribing a penalty for; or

(b)enhancing a penalty prescribed for,

the contravention of or failure to comply with, a regulationmade under this section,

may be declared to take effect from a date earlier than thedate of its publication in the Gazette.

(3) A regulation prescribing a penalty for thecontravention of or failure to comply with a regulation, shallnot come into operation until it is approved by Parliamentand notice of such approval is published in the Gazette.

Regulations.

170Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister other than aregulation referred to in subsection (2), shall come intooperation on the date of its publication in the Gazette or onsuch other date as may be specified in the regulation.

(5) Every regulation referred to in subsection (2) shall assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for approval. Any such regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder. Notification of thedate on which a regulation shall be deemed rescinded shallbe published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER XX

INTERPRETATION

195.(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires-

agricultural business means the business of producingagricultural, horticultural or any animal produce andincludes an undertaking for the purpose of rearinglivestock or poultry;

approved accountant means

(a) an accountant who is a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; or

(b) an accountant who is a fellow member of theAssociation of Accounting Technicians of SriLanka incorporated under the CompaniesAct, No. 7 of 2007 in relation to any person,or any partnership other than a companywhere the turnover of the business of theperson or partnership for the year does notexceed one hundred million rupees;

Interpretation.

171Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

arrangement means

(a) an action, agreement, course of conduct,dealing, promise, transaction, understandingor undertaking, whether express or implied,whether or not enforceable by legalproceedings and whether unilateral orinvolving more than one person; or

(b) a part of an item described in paragraph (a);

asset includes a tangible or intangible asset, currency,goodwill, know-how, property, a right to income orfuture income, a benefit that lasts longer than twelvemonths and a part of an asset;

Assistant Commissioner includes a DeputyCommissioner appointed under this Act;

authorised officer, in relation to a function, means thetax official employed in the Department andauthorised in writing by the Commissioner-Generalto perform the function;

authorised representative means any individual who isauthorized in writing by a person to act on his behalffrom time to time for the purposes of this Act andwho is -

(a) in any case-

(i) a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka;

(ii) an attorney-at-law;

(iii) an employee regularly employed bythat person; or

(iv) a member of the Sri Lankan Institute ofTaxation established under the SriLanka Institute of Taxation Act, No. 21of 2000;

172Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(v) an individual approved by theCommissioner-General and registeredas an auditor under the Companies(Auditors) Regulations;

(vi) an individual specified by theCommissioner-General of any otherkind;

(b) in the case of an individual, a relative;

(c) in the case of a company, a director or thesecretary of that company;

(d) in the case of a partnership, a partner of thatpartnership;

(e) in the case of a body of persons, a member ofsuch body;

body means a company, partnership, trust or other bodyof persons whether formed in Sri Lanka or elsewhere;

business-

(a) includes-

(i) a trade, profession, vocation or isolatedarrangement with a business characterhowever short the duration of thearrangement; and

(ii) a past, present or prospective business;but

(b) excludes an employment;

capital asset

(a) means each of the following assets:-

(i) land or buildings;

173Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii) a membership interest in a company,partnership or trust;

(iii) a security or other financial asset;

(iv) an option, right or other interest in anasset referred to in the foregoingparagraphs; but

(b) excludes trading stock or a depreciable asset;

charitable institution means the trustee or trustees of atrust or corporation or an unincorporated body ofpersons established for a charitable purpose only orengaged solely in carrying out a charitable purpose;

charitable purposes means a purpose for the benefit ofthe public or any section of the public in or outsideSri Lanka, of any of the following categories:

(a) the relief of poverty;

(b) the advancement of education or knowledgeother than by any institution established forbusiness purposes or by any institutionestablished under the Companies Act;

(c) activities for the protection of the environmentor eco-friendly activities;

(d) the advancement of religion or the maintenanceof religious rites and practices or theadministration of a place of public worship;

(e) any other purpose beneficial to the community,not falling within any of the above categories;

Commissioner-General means the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue appointed under section97 and includes a Deputy Commissioner-General,

174Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Senior Commissioner, Commissioner or SeniorDeputy Commissioner who is specially authorisedby the Commissioner-General either generally or forsome specific purpose, to act on behalf of theCommissioner-General;

company -

(a) means a corporation, unincorporatedassociation or other body of persons;

(b) includes

(i) a friendly society, building society,pension fund, provident fund, retirementfund, superannuation fund or similarfund or society; and

(ii) a government excluding the Sri Lankangovernment, a political sub-division ofa government, or a public internationalorganization; but

(c) excludes a partnership or trust; and

(d) the following shall be deemed to be acompany:-

(i) a partnership in which at least twenty ofthe partners have limited liability for thedebts of the partnership; and

(ii) a unit trust or mutual fund to which section59 applies;

Department means the Inland Revenue Department;

depreciable asset

(a) means an asset to the extent to which it isemployed in the production of income from a

175Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

business and which is likely to lose valuebecause of wear and tear, obsolescence or thepassing of time; but

(b) excludes goodwill, an interest in land, amembership interest in an entity and tradingstock;

dividend

(a) means a payment derived by a member from acompany, whether received as a division ofprofits, in the course of a liquidation orreconstruction, in a reduction of capital or sharebuy-back or otherwise;

(b) includes a capitalisation of profits

(i) whether by way of a bonus share issue,increase in the amount paid-up on sharesor otherwise; and

(ii) whether an amount is distributed or not;and

(c) excludes a payment to the extent to which itis

(i) matched by a payment made by themember to the company;

(ii) debited to a capital, share premium orsimilar account; or

(iii) otherwise constitutes a finalwithholding payment or is included incalculating the income of the member;

domestic asset means

(a) an asset owned by a resident person (other thanforeign land or buildings or an asset held by a

176Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

foreign permanent establishment of the person)or held by a Sri Lankan permanentestablishment;

(b) an interest in land or a building situated in SriLanka; and

(c) shares in a resident company;

(d) a membership interest in a body, if more thanfifty per cent of the value of the interest isderived, directly or indirectly through one ormore interposed bodies, from land or buildingsin Sri Lanka;

eligible investment business means a business orinvestment comprising predominately of owning,investing or trading in

(a) capital assets;

(b) financial instruments; or

(c) other similar assets;

employee means an individual engaged inemployment;

employer means the person who engages or remuneratesan employee in employment or pays a pension orother remuneration to a former employee or to anyother person for the past services of such formeremployee, and includes in the case of an entityspecified in Column I hereunder, the person specifiedin the corresponding entry in Column II:

177Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Column IColumn II

A company or a bodyof persons whethercorporate orunincorporate

A partnership

A trust

A non- residentperson

A GovernmentInstitution

employment

(a) means

(i) a position of an individual in theemployment of another person;

(ii) a position of an individual as manager ofan entity;

Director, Secretary, Manageror other principal officer ofsuch company or body ofpersons

The precedent partner or anyactive partner resident in SriLanka, and in the case of apartnership of which noactive partner is resident inSri Lanka, the agent of suchpartnership in Sri Lanka

The trustee or trustees of thetrust

The agent or attorney of suchperson in Sri Lanka

Accountant or Director ofFinance or AdministrativeOfficer or Head of theDepartment or Institution, orSecretary to the Ministry orChairman of Commission orCommittee or any otherperson who paysremuneration

178Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(iii) a position of an individual entitling theindividual to a fixed or ascertainableremuneration in respect of servicesperformed;

(iv) a public office held by an individual;

(v) a position of an individual to whom anypayment is made or due by or from anemployer or who receives any other benefitas an employee or in a similar capacity;

(vi) a position as a corporation or companydirector; and

(b) includes a past, present or prospectiveemployment;

entertainment means the provision to any person offood, beverages, tobacco, accommodation,amusement, recreation or hospitality of any kind;

entity means a company, partnership or trust, butexcludes an individual;

expenditure or expense means a payment made thatreduces the assets of the person making the payment;

export includes specified undertaking;

financial institution means

(a) any company or body of persons carrying onbanking business and includes a licencedspecialized bank, within the meaning of theBanking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

(b) a non-banking financial institution regulatedin the same way as a bank in paragraph (a); or

179Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c) any other category of person as may beprescribed;

foreign permanent establishment means a fixed placeof business of a resident person situated in a foreigncountry where the business is conductedcontinuously for at least six months, but excludesany place at which only activities of a preparatory orauxiliary nature are conducted;

generally accepted accounting principles means

(i) those adopted, from time to time, by theInstitute of Charted Accountants (Sri Lanka);and

(ii) the International Financial ReportingStandards;

gift means a transfer without consideration or a transferwith consideration to the extent that the market valueof the property exceeds the market value of theconsideration;

interest includes

(a) a payment, including a discount or premium,made under a debt obligation that is not arepayment of capital; and

(b) a swap or other payment functionallyequivalent to interest;

(c) a commitment, guarantee or service fee paid inrespect of a debt obligation or swap agreement;and

(d) a distribution by a building society;

180Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

investment means

(a) the owning of one or more assets, includingone or more assets of a similar nature or thatare used in an integrated fashion, and

(i) includes a past, present or prospectiveinvestment; but

(ii) excludes a business or employment; or

(b) a game of chance, including lotteries, bettingor gambling;

investment asset

(a) means a capital asset held as part of aninvestment, but-

(b) excludes the principal place of residence of anindividual, provided it has been owned by theindividual continuously for the three yearsbefore disposal and lived in for at least two ofthose three years (calculated on a daily basis);

land or buildings includes a structural improvement toland or buildings, an interest in land or buildings oran interest in a structural improvement to land orbuildings, and includes the following:

(a) a lease of land or buildings;

(b) a lease of a structural improvement to land orbuildings; or

(c) an exploration, prospecting, development, orsimilar right relating to land or buildings; and

(d) information relating to a right referred to inparagraph (c);

181Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

lease means an arrangement providing a person with atemporary right in respect of an asset of anotherperson, other than money, and includes a licence,profit-a-prendre, option, rental agreement, royaltyagreement or tenancy;

local authority means any Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil, or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes anyAuthority established by or under any law to exercise,perform and discharge powers, duties and functions,corresponding or similar to the powers, duties andfunctions exercised, performed and discharged byany such Council or Sabha;

manager, in relation to an entity

(a) means a councillor, director, manager, member,officer or other person who participates or mayparticipate, whether alone or jointly with otherpersons, in making senior managementdecisions on behalf of the entity; and

(b) includes

(i) a working partner of a partnership and atrustee of a trust;

(ii) a person treated as a manager of an entityby any law; and

(iii) a non-resident person with respect to aSri Lankan permanent establishmentowned by the person;

member in relation to an entity means any person whoowns a membership interest in the entity;

membership interest in an entity means a right, whetherof a legal or equitable nature, including a contingentright, to participate in income or capital of the entityand includes the interest of a partner in a partnership,the interest of a beneficiary in a trust and shares in acompany;

182Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance;

natural resource means minerals, petroleum, water orany other non-living or living resource that may betaken from land or the sea;

natural resource payment means a payment, includinga premium or like amount, for the right to take naturalresources from land or the sea or calculated in wholeor part by reference to the quantity or value of naturalresources taken from land or the sea;

net cost for an asset or liability at a particular time isequal to

(a) in the case of a depreciable asset, its share ofthe written down value of the pool to which itbelongs at that time (paragraph 4 of the FourthSchedule) apportioned according to the marketvalue of all the assets in the pool; and

(b) in the case of any other asset or a liability, theamount by which cumulative costs for the assetor liability exceed cumulative considerationreceived for the asset or liability to the time;

non-governmental organization means anyorganization or association, whether incorporated orunincorporated, formed by a person or a group ofpersons on a voluntary basis and which is non-governmental in nature, and established andconstituted

(a) for the provision or relief and services of ahumanitarian nature to the poor and destitute,the sick, orphans, widows, youth, children; or

(b) generally for the provision of relief to theneedy,

183Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

unless such organization or association isdetermined by the Commissioner-General not to bea non-governmental organization, but in all casesdoes not include an approved charity;

non-traditional goods means goods other than blacktea not in packet or package form and each packet orpackage weighing not more than one kilogram, creperubber, sheet rubber, scrap rubber, latex or freshcoconuts, or agricultural, horticultural or dairyproduce, includes and organic tea in bulk;

partnership means an association of two or moreindividuals or corporations carrying on businessjointly for the purpose of making profit, irrespectiveof whether the association is recorded in writing;

payment means the conferring of value or a benefit inany form by one person on another person andincludes

(a) the transfer by one person of an asset or moneyto another person or the transfer by anotherperson of a liability to the one person;

(b) the creation by one person of an asset that oncreation is owned by another person or thedecrease by one person of a liability owed byanother person;

(c) the provision by one person of services toanother person; and

(d) the making available of an asset or moneyowned by one person for use by another personor the granting of use of such an asset or moneyto another person;

184Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

person means an individual or entity and includes abody of persons corporate or unincorporte, anexecutor, non-governmental organization andcharitable institution;

precedent partner means the partner who, of the activepartners resident in Sri Lanka

(a) is first named in the agreement of partnership;

(b) if there is no such agreement, is specified byname or initials singly or with precedence tothe other partners, in the usual name of thepartnership; or

(c) is the first name in the statement made undersection 4 of the Business Names Act, No.7 of1987;

public corporation means any corporation, board orother body which was or is, established by or under,any written law, other than the Companies Act, No.07 of 2007, with capital wholly or partly providedby the Government, by way of grant, loan or otherform;

received, in relation to a person, includes

(a) applied on behalf of the person either at theinstruction of the person or under any law;

(b) reinvested, accumulated or capitalised for thebenefit of the person;

(c) credited to an account, or carried to any reserve,or a sinking or insurance fund for the benefitof the person; or

(d) made available to the person;

185Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

rent

(a) means a payment, including a payment of apremium or like amount, for the use of or rightto use property of any kind;

(b) includes a payment for the rendering of, or theundertaking to render, assistance ancillary to ause or a right referred to in paragraph (a); but

(c) excludes a natural resource payment or aroyalty;

residence or resident with respect to a person isdetermined in accordance with section 69;

royalty means a payment, including a payment of apremium or like amount, derived as considerationfor

(a) the use of or right to use a copyright of literary,artistic or scientific work, includingcinematograph films, software or video oraudio recordings, whether the work is inelectronic format or otherwise;

(b) the use of or right to use a patent, trade mark,design or model, plan, or secret formula orprocess;

(c) the use of or right to use any industrial,commercial, or scientific equipment;

(d) the use of or right to use informationconcerning industrial, commercial or scientificexperience;

(e) the rendering of or the undertaking to renderassistance ancillary to a matter referred to inparagraph (a), (b), (c) or (d); or

186Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(f) a total or partial forbearance with respect to amatter referred to in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d)or (e);

senior citizen with respect to a year of assessment meansan individual who is

(a) a citizen of Sri Lanka during the year ofassessment;

(b) resident in Sri Lanka for the year of assessment;and

(c) who is sixty years old or above at any timeduring the year of assessment;

service fee means a payment to the extent to which,based on market values, it is reasonably attributableto services rendered by a business of a person, butexcludes interest, rent or a royalty;

shareholder means a person who is a member of acompany;

Small and Medium Enterprise means a person whosatisfies the following conditions:

(a) the person who conducts business solely in SriLanka other than an individual who is engagedin providing professional services individuallyor in partnership being an individual who isprofessionally qualified;

(b) the person does not have an associate that isan entity; and

(c) the persons annual gross turnover is less thanRs. 500,000,000;

187Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

specified undertaking means an undertaking which isengaged in

(a) entrepot trade involving import, minorprocessing and re-export;

(b) offshore business where goods can be procuredfrom one country or manufactured in onecountry and shipped to another country withoutbringing the same into Sri Lanka;

(c) providing front end services to clients abroad;

(d) headquarters operations of leading buyers formanagement of financial supply chain andbilling operations;

(e) logistic services such as bonded warehouse ormulti-country consolidation in Sri Lanka;

(f) transshipment operations;

(g) freight forwarding;

(h) supply of services to any exporter of goods orservices or to any foreign principal of suchexporter directly, being services which couldbe treated as essentially related to themanufacture of such goods or provision of suchservices exported by such exporter eitherdirectly or through any export trading house,including any service provided by an agent ofa ship operator to such agents foreignprincipal, and the payment for such servicesare made by such exporter or foreign principalto such person in Sri Lanka in foreign currency;

(i) production or manufacture, and supply to anexporter of non-traditional goods; and

188Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(j) the performance of any service of ship repair,ship breaking repair and refurbishment ofmarine cargo containers, provision of computersoftware, computer programmes, computersystems or recording computer data, or suchother services as may be specified by theMinister by notice published in the Gazette,for payment on foreign currency;

(k) sale for foreign currency, of any gem orjewellery, being a sale made in Sri Lanka byany person authorized by the Central Bank ofSri Lanka to accept payment for such sale inforeign currency;

Sri Lankan permanent establishment means a place inSri Lanka where a non-resident person carries onbusiness or that is at the disposal of the person forthat purpose and includes

(a) a place in Sri Lanka where a person has, or isusing or is installing substantial equipment orsubstantial machinery;

(b) a place in Sri Lanka where a person is engagedin a construction, assembly or installationproject for ninety days or more, including aplace where a person is conducting supervisoryactivities in relation to such a project;

(c) the provision of services in Sri Lanka, but onlyif activities of that nature continues (for thesame or a connected project) for a period ofone hundred and eighty three days or more inany twelve month period; and

189Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d) a place in Sri Lanka where an agent performsany function on behalf of the business of a non-resident person

(i) including, in the case of an insurancebusiness, the collection of premiums orthe insurance of risks situated in SriLanka; but

(ii) excluding a case involving a generalagent of independent status acting in theordinary course of business as such;

tax means a compulsory payment to thegovernment imposed under this Act regardlessof whether that payment is designated as a tax,fee, duty, levy or otherwise, and, unless thecontext otherwise requires, includes withholdingtax, instalments, interest, late fee, or penalty inrelation to a tax;

tax official means

(a) the Commissioner-General; and

(b) Deputy Commissioners General, SeniorCommissioners, Commissioners, SeniorDeputy Commissioners, DeputyCommissioners and Assistant Commissioners;

tax return means a return, including an informationreturn, that a person is required to file with theDepartment, in which information about that personsor some other persons possible tax liability isprovided;

taxpayer means

(a) a person who is required to pay tax under thisAct including a person who has zero chargeableor taxable income or a loss for a year ofassessment; or

190Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b) a person who is required to withhold tax andpay it to the Department;

trading stock means assets owned by a person that aresold or intended to be sold in the ordinary course ofa business of the person, work in progress on suchassets, inventories of materials to be incorporatedinto such assets and consumable stores;

Transfer Pricing Officer means any officer of InlandRevenue specified by the Commissioner-General asa Transfer Pricing Officer;

trust means an arrangement under which a trustee holdsassets;

trustee means an individual or body corporate holdingassets in a fiduciary capacity for the benefit ofidentifiable persons or for some object permitted bylaw and whether or not

(a) the assets are held alone or jointly with otherindividuals or bodies corporate; or

(b) the individual or body corporate is appointedor constituted trustee by personal acts, by will,by order or declaration of a court or by operationof the law; and

(c) includes

(i) an executor, administrator, tutor orcurator;

(ii) a liquidator, receiver, trustee inbankruptcy or judicial manager;

(iii) a person having the administration orcontrol of assets subject to a usufruct orother limited interest;

191Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(iv) a person who manages the assets of anincapacitated individual; and

(v) a person who manages assets under aprivate foundation or other similararrangement;

underlying ownership

(a) in relation to an entity, means membershipinterests owned in the entity, directly orindirectly through one or more interposedentities, by individuals or by entities in whichno person has a membership interest; or

(b) in relation to an asset owned by an entity, isdetermined as though the asset is owned bythe persons having underlying ownership ofthe entity in proportion to that ownership ofthe entity;

USD means the United States Dollar;

withholdee means a person receiving or entitled toreceive a payment from which tax is required to bewithheld under this Act; and

withholding agent means a person required to withholdtax from a payment under this Act.

196.(1) For the purposes of this Act, two persons areassociates or associated persons where the relationshipbetween the two is

(a)that of an individual and a relative of theindividual;

(b)that of partners in the same partnership;

(c)that of an entity and a person referred to insubsection (2); or

Associatedpersons.

192Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d)in any case not covered by paragraphs (a) to (c),such that one may reasonably be expected to act,other than as employee, in accordance with thedirections, requests, suggestions or intentions ofthe other.

(2) A person and an entity are associated personswhere

(a)the person controls the entity or may benefit fromfifty percent or more of the rights to income, capitalor voting power of the entity

(i) either alone or together with persons who,under another application of this section, areassociated with the person; and

(ii) whether directly or through one or moreinterposed entities; or

(b)the person, under another application of thissection, is an associate of a person referred to inparagraph (a).

(3) In this section, relative in relation to an individual,means the individuals child, spouse, parent, grandparent,grandchild, sibling, aunt, uncle, nephew, niece or first cousin,including by way of marriage or adoption.

197.(1) Where an individual incurs expenditure inrespect of himself, the expenditure shall be domesticexpenditure to the extent that it is incurred

(a)in maintaining the individual, including inproviding shelter as well as meals, refreshment,entertainment or other leisure activities;

(b)in the individual commuting from home;

Domesticexpenditure.

193Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(c)in acquiring clothing, including shoes, for theindividual, other than clothing that is not suitablefor wearing outside of work;

(d)in educating the individual, other than educationthat is directly relevant to a business conducted bythe individual and that does not lead to a degree ordiploma; or

(e)in paying any personal debts, including credit carddebts, of the individual.

(2) Where another person incurs expenditure in making apayment to or providing any other benefit for an individual,the expenditure shall be domestic expenditure except to theextent that

(a)the payment or benefit shall be included incalculating the income of the individual;

(b)the individual provides consideration of an equalmarket value for the payment or benefit; or

(c)the amount of the expenditure is so small as to makeit unreasonable or administratively impracticableto account for it.

(3) Expenditure referred to in subsections (1) and (2) shallinclude interest incurred with respect to money borrowedthat is used in a manner referred to in those subsections.

198.(1) For the purposes of this Act, the term financialinstrument

(a)means

(i) a debt claim or debt obligation;

(ii) a derivative instrument;

Financialinstruments.

194Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(iii) a foreign currency instrument; and

(iv) any other instrument prescribed byregulations or, in the absence of regulations,treated as a financial instrument by generallyaccepted accounting principles; but

(b)except to the extent as may be prescribed byregulations, excludes a membership interest in anentity.

(2) For the purposes of this Act

(a) debt claim means a right to receive a paymentunder a debt obligation;

(b) debt obligation means an obligation to makea payment to another person that isdenominated in money, including accountspayable and the obligations arising underdeposits, debentures, stocks, treasury bills,promissory notes, bills of exchange and bonds.

(3) For the purposes of this Act, a person

(a) derives a financial gain when the personderives interest or gains with respect to afinancial instrument; and

(b) incurs a financial cost when the person incursinterest or losses with respect to a financialinstrument.

(4) For the purposes of this Act, a person

(a) derives a relevant financial gain when the personderives a financial gain with respect to a derivativeor foreign currency instrument; and

195Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b) incurs a relevant financial cost when the personincurs a financial cost with respect to a derivativeor foreign currency instrument.

(5) The Minister may by regulation prescribe -

(a) the derivative instruments; and

(b) the foreign currency instruments.

CHAPTER XXI

SPECIAL PROVISIONS

199.(1) The Minister may, on behalf of the Government,enter into, amend, or terminate a mutual administrativeassistance agreement with a foreign government orgovernments.

(2) A mutual administrative assistance agreement forwhich Parliament has issued an instrument of ratificationshall have legal effect in Sri Lanka according to its terms.

(3) If there is any conflict between the terms of a mutualadministrative assistance agreement to which subsection (2)applies and any other law, the mutual administrativeassistance agreement shall prevail.

(4) If a tax treaty or mutual administrative assistanceagreement having legal effect in Sri Lanka provides forexchange of information, or reciprocal assistance in therecovery of tax or service of process, the Commissioner-General shall use the powers available under this Act or anyother law to meet Sri Lankas obligations under the treaty oragreement on the basis that a reference in this Act or otherlaw:

(a)to tax includes a foreign tax to which the exchangeof information or reciprocal assistance relates;

Implementationof MutualAdministrativeAssistanceAgreements.

196Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)to unpaid tax (or words to that effect) includes anamount specified in paragraph (a) that has not beenpaid by the due date;

(c)to taxpayer includes a person liable for an amountspecified in paragraph (a); and

(d)to tax law includes the law under which a foreigntax specified in paragraph (a) is imposed.

(5) In this section -

international agreement means an agreementbetween the Republic of Sri Lanka and a foreigngovernment or governments;

mutual administrative assistance agreement meansa tax information exchange agreement or otherinternational agreement for mutualadministrative assistance in relation to taxationmatters.

200.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

CHAPTER XXII

TEMPORARY CONCESSIONS AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

201. (1) The provisions of the Sixth Schedule to this Actprovide for concessions of a temporary nature, and apply to modifythe application of this Act for the periods set out therein.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

TemporaryConcessions.

197Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Unless expressly stated to the contrary, the provisionsof the Sixth Schedule

(a)shall be applied strictly and only in accordancewith their clear wording; and

(b)expire five years after they become operative.

(3) For the purposes of this Act, where a provision of theSixth Schedule applies to grant a concession to a personwith respect to a particular type of business

(a)the business shall be construed narrowly and onlythe persons activities devoted wholly andexclusively to that business shall be treated as partof the business; and

(b)the persons income or loss from the business for ayear of assessment shall be calculated separatelyfrom any other activity of the person.

202. (1) The Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006 ishereby repealed.

(2) The repealed Act shall continue to apply in respect ofevents occurring prior to the date of commencement of thisAct.

(3) All appointments and delegations made under therepealed Act and subsisting at the date of commencement ofthis Act shall be deemed to be as appointments anddelegations made under this Act.

Repeal andSavings.

198Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(4) All forms and documents used in relation to therepealed Act shall continue to be used under this Act, andall references in those forms and documents to provisions ofand expressions appropriate to the repealed Act shall deemto refer to the corresponding provisions and expressions ofthis Act.

(5) Appeals, prosecutions and other proceedingscommenced before the commencement date of this Act shallcontinue and shall be disposed of as if this Act had not comeinto force.

(6) Tax liabilities that arose before the commencementdate of this Act may be recovered by fresh proceedings underthis Act, but without prejudice to an action already taken forthe recovery of the tax.

(7) When the law concerning tax administration andprocedure in effect prior to the commencement of this Act issilent with respect to a matter addressed in this Act, therelevant provision in this Act shall apply with retroactiveeffect to matters that are not closed under the period oflimitations.

203.(1) The repealed Act shall continue to apply foryears of assessment commencing prior to the date on whichthis Act comes into effect.

(2) A reference in this Act to

(a) a previous year of assessment includes, wherethe context requires, a reference to a year ofassessment under the repealed Act; or

(b) this Act or to a provision of this Act includes,where the context requires, a reference to therepealed Act or to a corresponding provision ofthe repealed Act, respectively.

TransitionalProvisions.

199Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) This subsection shall apply where a persons year ofassessment under the repealed Act is (at the time the repealedlegislation ceases to have effect) a period of twelve monthsother than the year ending 31 March. The person shall bedeemed to have been granted approval by the Commissioner-General under section 20(2) to use that period as the personsyear of assessment under this Act.

(4) The cost of an investment asset held by a person as at,September 30, 2017 is equal to the market value of the assetat that time.

(5) For the purpose of calculating the amount of eachinstalment of tax payable by an instalment payer undersection 90 for the first year of assessment commencing on orafter 1 April 2017, the instalment payer may assume that itscurrent estimated tax payable for that year of assessment isequal to the amount of tax that was payable by the instalmentpayer in the previous year of assessment, increased by anuplift of five percent. A person shall not be required to paytax by quarterly instalments under section 90 where thatperson had no tax payable in the previous year of assessment.

200Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

FIRST SCHEDULE(Section 2)

TAX RATES

1. Tax rates for resident and non - resident individuals.

(1) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (2), the taxableincome of a resident or non-resident individual for a year ofassessment shall be taxed at the following rates:

Taxable IncomeTax Payable

Not Exceeding Rs. 600,0004% of the amount in excessof Rs. 0

Exceeding Rs. 600,000 but notRs. 24,000 plus 8% of the exceeding Rs. 1,200,000amount in excess ofRs. 600,000

Exceeding Rs. 1,200,000 but notRs. 72,000 plus 12% of theexceeding Rs. 1,800,000amount in excess ofRs. 1,200,000

Exceeding Rs. 1,800,000 but notRs. 144,000 plus 16% ofexceeding Rs. 2,400,000the amount in excess ofRs. 1,800,000

Exceeding Rs. 2,400,000 but notRs. 240,000 plus 20% ofexceeding Rs. 3,000,000the amount in excess ofRs. 2,400,000

Exceeding Rs. 3,000,000Rs. 360,000 plus 24% ofthe amount in excess ofRs. 3,000,000:

(2) Where an individuals taxable income includes gains fromthe realisation of investment assets or the types of income referred toin subparagraphs (3) or (4), then

(a)those gains from the realisation of investment assets shallbe taxed at the rate of 10%;

(b)the types of income from employment referred to insubparagraph (3) for a year of assessment shall be taxed atthe following rates:

201Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(i)where the period of contribution or the period ofemployment is 20 years or less:

Total Income fromTax PayableEmployment

Not exceeding Rs. 2,000,0000% of the amount inexcess of Rs. 0

Exceeding Rs. 2,000,0005% of the amount inbut not exceedingexcess of Rs. 2,000,000Rs. 3,000,000

Exceeding Rs. 3,000,000Rs. 50,000 plus 10% of theamount in excess ofRs. 3,000,000

(ii)where the period of contribution or the period ofemployment is more than 20 years:

Total Income fromTax PayableEmployment

Not exceeding Rs. 5,000,0000% of the amount in excessof Rs. 0

Exceeding Rs. 5,000,000 but5% of the amount innot exceeding Rs. 6,000,000 excess of Rs. 5,000,000

Exceeding Rs. 6,000,000Rs. 50,000 plus 10% of theamount in excess ofRs. 6,000,000

(c)the type of business income referred to in subparagraph (4)shall be taxed at 40%; and

(d)only the remainder of the individuals taxable income shallbe taxed at the rates referred to in subparagraph (1)

(3) The types of income from employment referred to insubparagraph (2) shall be

(a)amount received in commutation of a pension;

(b)amount received as a retiring gratuity;

(c)amount received as compensation for loss of office oremployment under a scheme which the Commissioner-General considers to be uniformly applicable to allindividuals employed by the employer;

202Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d)amount paid to a person at or after the time of retirementfrom employment from a provident fund approved by theCommissioner-General that does not represent the personscontributions to that provident fund;

(e)amount paid to a person from a regulated provident fundthat does not represent the contributions made by theemployer to that provident fund before April 1, 1968, andthe interest which accrued on such contributions made bythe employer, if tax has been paid by the employer at 15%on such contributions made and the interest accruingthereon; and

(f)amount paid to a person at or after the time of retirementfrom employment from the Employees Trust Fund,established by the Employees Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of1980.

(4) The type of income referred to in subparagraph (2) (c) shallbe income from a business consisting of betting and gaming, liquoror tobacco.

2. Tax rate for partnerships.

Where a partnerships taxable income includes gains from therealisation of investment assets, those gains shall be taxed to thepartnership at the rate of 10%.

3. Tax rates for trusts.

(1) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (2), the taxableincome of a trust for a year of assessment to which subsection (1) ofsection 57 applies shall be taxed at the rate of [24%].

(2) Where a trusts taxable income includes gains from therealisation of investment assets, then

(a)those gains, shall be taxed to the trust at the rate of 10%;and

(b)only the remainder of the trusts taxable income shall betaxed at the rate referred to in subparagraph (1).

(3) Where a trusts taxable income (not otherwise covered by thisparagraph) includes gains from the realisation of investment assets,those gains shall be taxed to the trust at the rate of 10%.

4. Tax rates for companies.

(1) Subject to subparagraphs (2) and (3), the taxable income of acompany for a year of assessment shall be taxed at the rate of 28%.

203Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) The taxable income of a company for a year of assessmentshall be taxed at the following rates:

(a)in the case of an Small and Medium Enterprises 14%;

(b)in the case of a company predominantly conducting abusiness of exporting goods and services 14%;

(c)in the case of a company predominantly conducting anagricultural business 14%;

(d)in the case of a company with income from a businessconsisting of betting and gaming, liquor and tobacco(excluding such income which is merely incidental toanother business) 40%;

(e)in the case of a company predominantly providingeducational services 14%;

(f)in the case of a company predominantly engaged in anundertaking for the promotion of tourism- 14%; and

(g)in the case of a company predominantly providinginformation technology services-14%.

(3) In this paragraph

(i) providing information technology means

(a) software development services; or

(b) the provision of information technology servicesunder a business process outsourcing arrangement ora knowledge process outsourcing arrangement;

(ii) undertaking for the promotion of tourism means anundertaking for the operation of-

(a) any hotel or guest house approved by the CeylonTourist Board;

(b) any restaurant graded by the Ceylon TouristBoard as being in Class A or Class B;

(c) any business of travel agent who provides travelmanagement services for domestic travel in SriLanka;

(d) any business of transporting tourists only; or

204Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(e) any business approved by the Ceylon TouristBoard for providing facilities for recreation orsports;

(iii) predominantly means 80% or more calculated basedon gross income

(4) Where a companys taxable income includes gains from therealisation of investment assets, then

(a)those gains, shall be taxed to the company at the rate of10%; and

(b)only the remainder of the companys taxable income shallbe taxed at the rate referred to in subparagraph (1).

5. Tax rates for unit trusts or mutual funds.

(1) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (2), the taxableincome of a unit trust or mutual fund to which section 59 applies fora year of assessment shall be taxed at the rate of [28%].

(2) Where a unit trusts or mutual funds taxable income includesgains from the realisation of capital assets then

(a)those gains, shall be taxed to the unit trust or mutual fundat the rate of 10%; and

(b)only the remainder of the unit trusts or mutual fundstaxable income shall be taxed at the rate referred to insubparagraph (1).

6. Tax rates for charitable institutions.

(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the taxable income of a charitableinstitution for a year of assessment shall be taxed at the rate of [14%].

(2) Where a charitable institutions taxable income includes gainsfrom the realisation of investment assets, then

(a)those gains shall be taxed to the charitable institutions at therate of 10%; and

(b)only the remainder of the charitable institutions taxableincome shall be taxed at the rate referred to in subparagraph(1).

7. Tax rates for non-governmental organizations.

(1) Subject to subparagraph (2), the taxable income of a non-governmental organization for a year of assessment shall be taxed atthe rate of [28%].

205Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(2) Where a non-governmental organizations taxable incomeincludes gains from the realisation of investment assets, then

(a)those gains, shall be taxed to the non-governmentalorganization at the rate of 10%; and

(b)only the remainder of the non-governmental organizationstaxable income shall be taxed at the rate referred to insubparagraph (1).

(3) The rate of tax payable by a non-governmental organizationon amounts received in a year of assessment by way of grant, donationor contribution or in any other manner under section 68 shall be[28%].

8. Tax Rates for Employees Trust Funds, Provident or PensionFunds and Termination Funds.

(1) The taxable income of an employees trust fund, an approvedprovident or pension fund, or an approved termination fund for ayear of assessment shall be taxed at the rate of [14%].

(2) For this paragraph, approved termination fund means anythrift, saving or building society or welfare fund to which contributionsare made by employees only or any gratuity fund approved by theCommissioner-General and maintained for the purposes of paymentunder the Payment of Gratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983, of gratuities toemployees on the termination of their services.

9. Remittance tax rate.

The rate of tax payable by a non-resident person who has remittedprofits under section 62 shall be [14%].

10. Withholding tax rates.

(1) The rates of tax to be withheld from payments shall be

(a)for payments to which section 83 applies

(i) in the case of a resident withholdee - at the ratesspecified by the Commissioner General andpublished in the Gazette; and

(ii) in the case of a non-resident withholdee - at the ratesspecified by the Commissioner General andpublished in the Gazette;

(b)for payments to which section 84(1)(a)(i) applies

(i)in the case of interest or discount paid to a person(other than to an individual who is a senior citizen inrelation to a bank deposit account) - 5%;

206Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(ii)in the case of interest paid to a senior citizen - at therate and in the manner prescribed in regulations;

(iii)in the case of rent paid to a resident person 10%;and

(iv)in all other cases 14%;

(c) for payments to which section 85 applies

(i)in the case of service fees referred to in section85(1)(a) - 5% on amounts exceeding Rs. 50,000per month;

(ii)in the case of service fees referred to in section85(1)(b) - 14%; and

(iii)in the case of insurance premiums referred to insection 85(1)(b) - 14%.

(2) The rate of tax to be withheld from each partners share ofany partnership income under section 53(9) and section 84(1) (a) (ii)shall be 8% of the amount.

(3) The rate of tax to be withheld from payments to which section84 (2) applies - 2.5%.

207Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

SECOND SCHEDULE

INVESTMENT INCENTIVES

Enhanced Capital Allowances

1. (1) A person who invests in Sri Lanka (other than the expansionof an existing business) during a year of assessment shall be grantedenhanced capital allowances computed in accordance with thisparagraph, in addition to the capital allowances computed under theFourth Schedule.

(2) A capital allowance of 100% of the expenses incurred by aperson on depreciable assets, other than intangible assets during ayear of assessment shall be granted to that person for that year if thetotal expenses incurred by that person during that year on depreciableassets (other than intangible assets) that are used in a part of Sri Lankaother than the Northern Province exceeds USD 3 million but does notexceed USD 100 million.

(3) A capital allowance of 150% of the expenses incurred by aperson on depreciable assets other than intangible assets during a yearof assessment shall be granted to that person for that year if the totalexpenses incurred by that person during that year on depreciableassets (other than intangible assets) that are used in a part of Sri Lankaother than the Northern Province exceeds USD 100 million.

(4) A capital allowance of 200% of the expenses incurred by aperson on depreciable assets other than intangible assets during a yearof assessment shall be granted to that person for that year where thetotal expenses incurred by that person during that year on depreciableassets (other than intangible assets) that are used in the NorthernProvince exceeds USD 3 million.

(5) A capital allowance of 150% of the expenses incurred by aperson on assets or shares of a state owned company during a year ofassessment shall be granted to that state owned company for that yearif the total expenses incurred by that person during that year on assetsof a state owned company that are used in a part of Sri Lanka exceedsUSD 250 million.

(6) Capital allowances arising under a subparagraph of thisparagraph 1 with respect to a particular year of assessment cannot beaccumulated with another subparagraph and shall be taken in thatyear and shall be deferred to a later year of assessment.

Extended Period for Deducting Unrelieved Losses

(7) Subject to the provisions of subparagraph (9), and despitesubsection 19(1), where enhanced Capital allowances computed under

208Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

this paragraph and deducted under section 16 result in an unrelievedloss for a person, that unrelieved loss may be deducted by that personfor the purposes of calculating the persons income from a businessfor a year of assessment in any of the succeeding ten years ofassessment.

(8) Notwithstanding anything in subsection (1) of section 19,where a person has incurred more than USD 1,000 million ondepreciable assets (other than intangible assets) in Sri Lanka or entitledto enhanced capital allowances under subparagraph (5) of thisparagraph in respect of which enhanced Capital allowances havebeen computed under this paragraph and deducted under section 16resulting in an unrelieved loss for a person, that unrelieved loss maybe deducted by that person for the purposes of calculating the personsincome from a business for a year of assessment in any of thesucceeding twenty-five years of assessment.

Assessable Charges and Balancing Allowances

(9) Where an asset for which Capital allowance has been grantedunder this paragraph is disposed of (or deemed to be disposed of)during a year of assessment

(a)if the consideration received for the disposal exceeds thewritten down value of the asset, the excess shall be includedin calculating a persons income for a year of assessmentfrom a business in which the depreciable assets are or wereemployed; and

(b)if the written down value of the asset exceeds theconsideration received for the disposal, an additional Capitalallowance shall be granted for the year in an amount equalto the excess.

(10) In this paragraph-

Capital allowance expenditure means expenditure for whichCapital allowances are available under this Schedule;and

state owned company means any company, where fiftyper centum or more of the shares are held by theGovernment and includes a company of which fortyper centum or more of the shares held by the Governmentare acquired by a person for an amount not less thanUSD 250 million; and

209Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

written down value of an asset means the cost of the assetless all Capital allowances granted with respect toexpenditure included in that cost.

Exemption of Certain Dividends from Withholding Tax

2. Notwithstanding anything in the First Schedule, the rate of taxto be withheld from a dividend paid by a company to a non-residentmember shall be zero, if the company paying the dividend has incurredmore than USD 1,000 million on depreciable assets (other thanintangible assets) in Sri Lanka or entitled to an enhanced capitalallowance under subparagraph (5) of paragraph 1, and that dividendis paid out of profits sheltered by enhanced Capital allowances underthis Schedule.

Exemption of Employment Income from Withholding Tax

3. Notwithstanding anything in the First Schedule, the rate of taxto be withheld from a payment made by an employer to an expatriateemployee shall be zero, if the company paying the dividend hasincurred more than USD 1,000 million on depreciable assets (otherthan intangible assets in Sri Lanka or entitled to an enhanced capitalallowance under subparagraph (5) of paragraph 1, and that dividendis paid out of profits sheltered by enhanced Capital allowances underthis Schedule, where the number of expatriate employees is notexceeding twenty.

210Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

THIRD SCHEDULE

EXEMPT AMOUNTS

The following shall be exempt amounts:-

(a)amounts derived by

(i)the Government of Sri Lanka or a local authority,including any Government department;

(ii)the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, including theMonetary Board;

(iii)any University which is established or deemed to beestablished under the Universities Act, No. 16 of1978 or the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri LankaAct, No. 74 of 1981;

(iv)any Government assisted private school other thanthat incorporated under the Companies Act, No. 7of 2007 which is registered with the Ministry ofEducation and mandated to follow the Circulars andmandated to follow the Circulars issued byGovernment and the Ministry of Edunation;

(v)any registered society within the meaning of theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972;

(vi)the Government of a foreign country of foreignterritory to the extent specified under a diplomaticimmunities law or a similar law;

(vii)an international organisation to the extent specifiedunder a diplomatic immunities law or a similar lawor an agreement between the organisation and theGovernment of Sri Lanka, provided that theexemption provided under the agreement shall bebroader than that provided under diplomaticimmunities law or a similar law;

(b)capital sums paid to a person as compensation or a gratuityin relation to

(i)personal injuries suffered by the person; or

(ii)the death of another person;

(c)the pension of a person where the pension income is paidby the Government of Sri Lanka or a department of theGovernment of Sri Lanka;

(Section 9)

211Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(d)an amount paid to an employee at the time of retirementfrom

(i) any pension fund or the Employees Trust Fundestablished by the Employees Trust Fund Act,No.46 of 1980, as represents income derived bythat fund, for any period commencing on or afterApril 1, 1987, from investments made by it;

(ii) a provident fund approved by the Commissioner-General;

(e)the income of an individual entitled to privileges to theextent provided for by

(i)a diplomatic immunities law or a similar law;

(ii)an Act giving effect to the Convention on thePrivileges and Immunities of the United Nations andthe Convention on the Privileges and Immunities ofthe Specialised Agencies of the United Nations; or

(iii)regulations made under this Act relating to aninternational organisation, or a law or Act referredto in subparagraph (i) or (ii);

(f)a gain made by a resident individual from the realisation ofan investment asset that does not exceed Rs. 50,000 andwhere the total gains made by the resident individual fromthe realisation of investment assets in the year of assessmentdo not exceed Rs. 600,000, except

(i)where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that aninvestment asset has been realised in two or moreparts for the purpose of taking advantage of thisparagraph, any gain arising from the realisationsshall be exempt under this paragraph only if thetotal gain from the realisation of all parts does notexceed Rs. 50,000 and the total gains made by theresident individual from the realisation of investmentassets in the year of assessment do not exceed Rs.600,000;

(ii)in the case of the realisation of an investment assetthat is jointly owned, this paragraph applies only ifthe total gain made by all owners of the investmentasset on realisation of the asset does not exceed Rs.50,000and the total gains made by the residentindividual in the year of assessment do not exceedRs. 600,000;

212Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(g)a gain made by a resident individual on the realisation ofthe individualsprincipal place of residence, provided ithas been owned by the individual continuously for thethree years before being realised and lived in by theindividual for at least two of those three years (calculatedon a daily basis);

(h)gain made on realisation of an asset consisting of sharesquoted in any official list published by any stock exchangelicensed by the Securities and Exchange Commission of SriLanka;

(i)the interest derived by a charitable institution, where it isproved to the satisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalthat such interest is applied solely for the purpose ofproviding care to children, the elderly or the disabled in ahome maintained by such charitable institution;

(j)any prize received by a person as an award made by thePresident of the Republic of Sri Lanka or by the Governmentin recognition of an invention created, or any researchundertaken, by such person;

(k)any sum received by a person from the Presidents Fundestablished by the Presidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 orNational Defence Fund established by the National DefenceFund Act, No. 9 of 1985;

(l)an amount equal to the interest or the discount paid orallowed, as the case may be, to any non-resident person orto any licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka, by the issuerof any sovereign bond denominated in foreign currency,issued on or after October 21, 2008, by or on behalf of theGovernment of Sri Lanka;

(m)any amount derived by a senior citizen from an annuity forlife for a period of not less than ten years purchased from abank or an insurance company registered under theRegulation of Insurance Industry Act, No. 43 of 2000;

(n)any winning from a lottery, the gross amount of whichdoes not exceed Rs. 500,000;

(o)a dividend paid by a resident company to a member to theextent that dividend payment is attributable to, or derivedfrom, another dividend received by that resident companyor another resident company that was subject to withholdingunder section 84; and

(p)benefits received or derived by an employee of thegovernment of Sri Lanka from a road vehicle permit issuedto that employee;

213Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(q)the profits and income from any property donated by royalor other grant before March 2, 1815, to any place of publicworship administered by a charitable institution, in so faras such profits and income are applied to the purposers forwhich such grant was made;

(r)dividends from and gains on the realisation of shares in anon-resident commpany where derived by a residentcompany with respect to a substantial participation in thenon-resident company. In this paragraph, substantialparticipation means

(i) holding 10 percent or more of the value of sharesin the company, excluding redeemable shares;together with

(ii) control, either directly or indirectly, of 10 percentor more of the voting power in the company;

(s)any amount derived by a person from the sale of any gemon which tax has been deducted under subsection (2) ofsection 84.

214Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

FOURTH SCHEDULE

CAPITAL ALLOWANCES, BALANCING ALLOWANCES ANDASSESSABLE CHARGES

Types and classification of depreciable assets.

1. (1) The types and classification of depreciable assets shall beas follows:

ClassDepreciable Assets

1computers and data handling equipment together withperipheral devices.

2buses and minibuses, goods vehicles; construction and earth-moving equipment, heavy general purpose or specialisedtrucks, trailers and trailer-mounted containers; plant andmachinery used in manufacturing.

3railroad cars, locomotives, and equipment; vessels, barges,tugs, and similar water transportation equipment; aircraft;specialised public utility plant, equipment, and machinery;office furniture, fixtures, and equipment; any depreciableasset not included in another class.

4buildings, structures and similar works of a permanent nature.

5intangible assets, excluding goodwill.

(2) Where a depreciable asset owned by a person is only partlyused in the production of income from a business at the end of a yearof assessment, the cost of and consideration received for the assetshall be apportioned according to the market value of that part of theasset that is used in the production of income from that business andthat part not.

Capital allowances.

2. (1) Subject to this paragraph, an allowance shall be granted toa person for a year of assessment for each of the persons depreciableassets equal to the depreciation for the year of that asset and calculatedin accordance with subparagraph (2).

(2) Depreciation for a year of assessment for each depreciableasset shall be calculated according to the straight line method usingthe following formula:

215Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

A/B

where-

Ais the depreciation basis of asset at the end of the year ofassessment; and

Bis the number of years referred to in subparagraph (3)applicable to that asset.

(3) The number of years applicable to a depreciable asset referredto in subparagraph (2) shall be:

ClassNumber of Years

15

25

35

420

5The actual useful life of the intangible asset, or where theintangible asset has an indefinite useful life, 20.

(4)No Capital allowance shall be granted to a person in respectof a road vehicle, other than

(a)a commercial vehicle;

(b)a bus or minibus;

(c)a goods vehicle; or

(d)a heavy general purpose or specialised truck or trailer.

(5) For the purposes of this paragraph, commercial vehiclemeans

(a)a road vehicle designed to carry loads of more than half atonne or more than 13 passengers; or

(b)a vehicle used in a transportation or vehicle rental business.

Depreciation basis of a depreciable asset.

3. The depreciation basis of a depreciable asset of a person at theend of a year of assessment is shall be the sum of

(a)the depreciation basis of the asset at the end of the previousyear of assessment; and

216Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)amounts added to the depreciation basis of the asset duringthe year of assessment in respect of additions to the cost ofasset.

Balancing allowances and assessable charges.

4. (1) Where a depreciable asset of a person is realised by theperson before the end of a year of assessment-

(a)an assessable charge is included in calculating the personsincome for the year calculated in accordance with thefollowing formula:

A B

or

(b)a balancing allowance is granted to the person for the yearcalculated in accordance with the following formula:

B A

where

Ais consideration received by the person during theyear of assessment for the asset; and

Bis the written down value of the asset at the time ofrealisation of the asset.

(2) For the purposes of this paragraph, written down value ofan asset at the time of realisation of the asset means the expensesincurred by a person in acquiring the asset reduced by all Capitalallowances granted to the person under paragraph 2 in respect of theasset.

(3) For the purposes of this paragraph and without prejudice tosection 39, a person realises a depreciable asset if the person sells thebusiness in respect of which the expenses were incurred to anotherperson who is not an associate.

217Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(Section 52)

FIFTH SCHEDULE

QUALIFYING PAYMENTS AND RELIEFS

1. The qualifying payments referred to in section 52 shall be asfollows:

(a)a donation made by an individual or entity in money to anapproved charitable institution that is:

(i)a charitable institution established for the provisionof institutionalized care for the sick or the needy; and

(ii)declared by the Minister as an approved charitableinstitution for the purposes of this sub-paragraph,subject to a maximum of

(iia) in the case of an individual, one-third of thetaxable income of the individual or Rupeesseventy five thousand, whichever is less;

(iib) in the case of an entity, one-fifth of the taxableincome of the entity or Rupees five hundredthousand, whichever is less;

(b) a donation made by an individual or entity in money orotherwise to the following:-

(i)the Government of Sri Lanka;

(ii)a local authority;

(iii)any Higher Education Institution established ordeemed to be established under the Universities Act,No. 16 of 1978;

(iv)the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka or anyHigher Educational Institution established by or underthe Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka Act,No. 74 of 1981;

(v)a fund established by the Government of Sri Lanka;

(vi)a fund established by a local authority and approvedby the Minister;

(vii)the Sevana Fund created and administered by theNational Housing Development Authority establishedby the National Housing Development Authority Act,No. 17 of 1979;

218Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(viii)a fund established by a Provincial Council andapproved by the Minister;

(ix)the Api Wenuwen Api Fund established by the ApiWenuwen Api Fund Act, No. 6 of 2008;

(x)National Kidney Fund established under the NationalKidney Foundation of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act,No. 34 of 2006;

(c)profits remitted to the Presidents Fund established by thePresidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 by a public corporationas required by the law by or under which such corporationis established.

2. The reliefs referred to in section 52 shall be as follows:

(a) Rs. 500,000 for each year of assessment, except that anindividual who is a trustee, receiver, executor or liquidatorshall not be entitled to deduct this personal relief as suchtrustee, receiver, executor or liquidator, and the relief isnot available to be deducted against gains from therealisation of investment assets;

(b) in the case of an individual with income from employment,Rs. 700,000 for each year of assessment, up to the total ofthe individuals income from employment for the year;

(c) in the case of an individual with rental income from aninvestment asset, an amount equal to 25 percent of thetotal rental income for the year of assessment, being arelief for the repair, maintenance, and depreciation relatingto the investment asset, but shall only be allowed to theextent no deduction or cost is claimed for any actualexpenditures incurred by the taxpayer for the repair,maintenance, and depreciation of the investment asset;

(d) in the case of an individual who is a senior citizen in ayear with interest income derived from a financialinstitution, Rs. 1,500,000 for each year of assessment, upto the total of the individuals interest income for theyear;

(e) in the case of a resident individual or partner of apartnership with income earned in foreign currency inSri Lanka, from any service rendered in or outsideSri Lanka to any person to be utilized outside Sri Lanka,Rs. 15,000,000 for each year of assessment, up to thetotal of such income for the year.

219Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

SIXTH SCHEDULE

TEMPORARY CONCESSIONS

Enhanced Capital Allowances

1.(1) A person who invests in Sri Lanka (other than expansionof existing business) on depreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph(4) during a year of assessment shall be granted enhanced capitalallowances computed in accordance with this paragraph, in additionto the capital allowances computed under the Fourth Schedule.

(2) A Capital allowance of 100% for expenses incurred by aperson, up to USD 03 million on depreciable assets mentioned insubparagraph (4) during a year of assessment shall be granted to thatperson for that year where the depreciable assets are used in a part ofSri Lanka, other than the Northern Province.

(3) A Capital allowance of 200% for expenses incurred by aperson, that are used in the Northern Province up to USD 3 million ondepreciable assets mentioned in subparagraph (4) during a year ofassessment shall be granted to that person for that year where thedepreciable assets are used in the Northern Province.

(4) The depreciable assets referred to in subparagraphs (1) and(2) shall be -

(a)Class 1 and Class 4 assets within the meaning of paragraph1 of the Fourth Schedule (being, buildings, structures andsimilar works of a permanent nature); and

(b)Depreciable assets (other than intangible assets) comprisingplant or machinery that are used to improve businessprocesses or productivity and fixed to the business premises.

(5) Capital allowances arising with respect to a particular year ofassessment shall be taken in that year and cannot be deferred to a lateryear of assessment.

Assessable Charges and Balancing Allowances

2. (1) Where an asset for which Capital allowances has beengranted under this paragraph is disposed of (or deemed to be disposedof) during a year of assessment

(a)where the consideration received for the disposal exceedsthe written down value of the asset, the excess shall beincluded in calculating a persons income for a year ofassessment from a business in which the depreciable assetsare or were employed; and

(Section 104)

220Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(b)where the written down value of the asset exceeds theconsideration received for the disposal, an additional Capitalallowance shall be granted for the year in an amount equalto the excess.

(2) In this paragraph-

Capital allowance expenditure means expenditure forwhich Capital allowances are available under thisSchedule; and

written down value of an asset means the cost of the assetless all Capital allowances granted with respect toexpenditure included in that cost.

Expiration period

3. Paragraph 1 of this Schedule shall expire three years after itbecomes effective.

Life Insurance

4. The portion of the gains and profits of any insurer engagedin the business of life insurance that is deemed as income of the lifeinsurer under section 67 (2) shall be taxed at the rate of fourteenpercent for three years of assessment after the commencement of theAct.

Information Technology

5. (1) A company is entitled to an additional deduction whencalculating the companys income from business for a year ofassessment equal to 35% of the total amount deducted for the yearunder this Act that represents payments made by the company whichare to be included in calculating the taxable income of its employees(other than as a company director), where that company

(a)conducts a business which predominately consists ofproviding information technology services within themeaning of the First Schedule;

(b)has atleast 50 employees during the whole of the year ; and

(c)report those employees in the statement that the company,as a withholding agent, is required to file under section 86.

(2) A company which is entitled for deduction under this paragraphshall not be entitled to an enhanced capital allowance under paragraph1 of this Schedule.

221Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

(3) Notwithstanding any thing in section 19(1) where thededuction under this paragraph results in an unrelieved loss for acompany that unrelived loss shall not be deducted in any succeedingyear of assessment.

Headquarters Relocation

6. Notwithstanding anything in the First Schedule, any institution,established on or after October 1, 2017 by relocating in Sri Lanka theheadquarters or regional head offices of institutions in the internationalnerwork, as specified by the Commissioner-General by Noticepublished in the Gazette shall be taxed at the rate of Zero percent forthree years of assessment after the commencement of this Act.

Renewable Energy

7. Notwithstanding anything in the First Schedule, any person,who has entered into a Standardized Power Purchase Agreement onor before November 10, 2016 with the Ceylon Electricity Board toprovide electricity generated using renewable resources shall be taxedat the rate of fourteen percent for the three years of assessment afterthe commencement of this Act.

Research and Development

8. A person is entitled to an additional deduction when calculatingthe persons income from business for a year of assessment equal to100% of the total amount of research and development expensesdeducted for the year under section 15, for three years of assessmentafter the commencement of this Act.

222Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017