PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON |
Ath Session 1968-69

Atomic Energy Authority
Act, No. 19 of 1969

Date of Assent: June 25, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government

and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,

Part II of July 4, 1969

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GovERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, P. O. Box 500, CoLomBo 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Atom Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 —

L. D.—O. 20/59.

An ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF AN
Atomic Enercy AUTHORITY AND AN ADVISORY
COMMITTEE TO ADVISE SUCH AUTHORITY, ‘T0
SPECIFY THE POWERS, DUTIES, RIGHTS AND
FUNCTIONS OF SUCH AUTHORITY, AND TO PROVIDE
FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 25, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this

present Parliament assembled, and by the authority
of the same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Atomic Energy
Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969.

2. (1) There shall be established an Authority
which shall be called the Atomic Energy Authority
_(bereinafter in this Act referred to as_ the
** Authority ’’).

(2) The Authority shall consist of not less than four
and not more than seven members appointed by the
Minister from among persons who appear to the
) Minister to have had experience and shown capacity
in dealing with matters connected with atomic energy,
administration or finance.

8. A person shall be disqualified for being
appointed or being a member of the Authority so long
as he is a Senator or a Member of Parliament.

4, (1) Every member of the Authority shall hold
and vacate his office in accordance with the terms of
his appointment, but he may resign his office by letter
addressed to the Minister. He shall, on ceasing to he
a member, be eligible for reappointment.

(2) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to

do so, remove from office any member of the Authority.

5. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of ‘the
members of the Authority to be its Chairman.

(2) The Chairman of the Authority shall hold and
vacate his office in accordance with the terms of his

appointment, but he may resign his office by letter.

1—B 69365—5,728 (6/69)

*

Short title.

Establishment
of the Atomic
Energy
Authority.

Disqualification
for being
appointed or
being a member
of the
Authority.

Term of office
of members of
the Authority.

Chairman of the
Authority.


Remuneration
of members of
the Authority.

Remuneration
for employment
of members of
the Authority
otherwise than
as such
member.

The Authority
to be a
corporation.

Seal of the
Authority.

The Authority
may acquire
and hold
property, raise
Joans, appoint
the necessary
staff, &c.

2 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

addressed to the Minister. He shall, on vacating his
office, be eligible, so long as he is a member of the
Authority, for reappointment.

6. Where the Minister, in consultation with the ,
Minister of Finance, decides that remuneration should
be paid to each member of the Authority and deter-
mines the remuneration to be so paid, the Authority
shall pay such remuneration.

7. Where any member, other than the Chairman,
of the Authority is employed about the affairs of the
Authority otherwise than as such member, the Autho-
rity shall pay to that member such remuneration, if
any, (in addition to any remuneration to which he
may be entitled in respect of his office as such member),
as the Minister may, in consultation with the Minister
of Finance, determine.

8. The Authority shall, by the name assigned to it
by sub-section (1) of section 2, be a body corporate and
shall have perpetual succession and a common seal and
may sue and be sued in such name.

9. The seal of the Authority—

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the
Authority may from time to time determine;

(b) may be altered in such manner as may be deter‘:
mined by the Authority; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with
the sanction of the Authority and in the
presence of two members of the Authority
who shall sign the document in token of their
presence.

10. (1) The Authority may acquire, hold, take or
give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge and sell or
otherwise dispose of any movable or immovable
property. ¥

(2) The Authority may appoint such officers and
servants as may be necessary for the performance of
the work of the Authority. The conditions of
employment, including remuneration, of any officer
or servant appointed under this sub-section shall be
determined by the Authority.

(3) The Authority may do such other things as are
incidental or conducive to the attainment of its
purposes.


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 3

44. The quorum for a meeting of the Authority
shall be three.

42. The Authority may act notwithstanding a

Kvacancy among its members so long as the number of
members of the Authority is sufficient to constitute a
quorum for a meeting of the Authority.

43. (1) A member of the Authority who is directly
or indirectly interested in a contract made or proposed
to be made by the Authority shall, as soon as possible
after the relevant circumstances have come to his
knowledge, disclose the nature of his interest at
a meeting of the Authority.

(2) Any disclosure made by a member of the
Authority under sub-section (1) shall be recorded in
the minutes of the Authority and that member—

(a) shall not take part after the disclosure in any
deliberation or decision of the Authority with
respect to the contract to which the disclosure
relates, and

(b) shall be disregarded for the purpose of constitut-
ing a quorum of the Authority for any such
deliberation or decision.

“$44. Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
the Authority may regulate its procedure.

15. (1) The Authority shall undertake and make
arrangements for the conduct of research and develop-
ment activities relating to—

(a) the production of atomic energy, including
processes, materials, and devices relating to
such production ;

(b) the utilization of fissionable and radioactive
materials for medical, agricultural, indus-
trial and other peaceful purposes;

(c) the protection of health during such research
and development activities;

(d) the protection of health of persons employed at
premises or places in which any radioactive
materials are manufactured, produced,

m treated, stored or used or any irradiating
apparatus is used, and the prevention of
injury caused by ionizing radiations to the
health of other persons; and

Quorum,

The Authority
may act despite
vacancy.

Disclosure of
interest of a
member of the
Authority in
a contract
made or pro-
posed to be
made by the
Authority.

The Authority
may regulate
its procedure.

Functions of
the Authority,


4 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

(e) the protection of health of persons transporting
radioactive materials.

(2) The arrangements referred to in sub-section (1)
shall contain such provisions to protect health, és
minimize danger from explosion and other hazards’
to life and property, and to require the reporting and
to permit the inspection of work performed there-
under, as the Authority may determine.

Powers of the 16. The Authority shall have power—

Fetal bo the (a) to produce, use and dispose of atomic energy
Production, and carry out research into any matters
disposal of connected therewith;

+ ihe (5) to manufacture or otherwise produce, buy or

otherwise acquire, store and transport any
article which in the opinion of the Authority
is, or is likely to be, required for or in
connection with the production or use of
atomic energy or such research as aforesaid,
and to dispose of any article manufactured,
produced, bought or otherwise acquired by
the Authority;

(c) to manufacture or otherwise produce, buy or
otherwise acquire, treat, store, transport and
dispose of any radioactive material;

(d) to do all such things (including the erection-e£-.
buildings and the execution of works) 4s
appear to the Authority necessary for the
exercise of the aforementioned powers; ,

(e) to make arrangements with universities and
other institutions or persons both in Ceylon
and abroad and Government Departments for
the conduct of research into matters connected
with atomic energy or radioactive materials
and, with the approval of the Minister given
in consultation with the Minister of Finance, -
to make grants or loans to universities and
other institutions or persons and Government
Departments engaged in the production or use.
of atomic energy or radioactive materials or
in research into matters connected With
atomic energy or radioactive materials;

(f) to make available for use in connection with
such research or production conducted cr
carried out by any institution or person othe”
than the Authority such of the Authority’s
equipment and facilities as the Authority
may determine; and


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 5

(g) to distribute information relating to, and
educate and train persons in matters
connected with, atomic energy or radioactive
materials.

47. (1) Any officer authorized in that behalf by

)

}

the Authority may by written notice served on any
person require such person to make such returns, at
such times, and containing such particulars as may be
specified in the notice, of all or any of the following : —

(a2) any such radioactive material specified in the
notice as is in his possession or under his
control;

(b) any plant in his possession or under his control
designed or adapted for the production or
use of atomic energy or research into matters
connected therewith;

(c) any contract entered into by him or any right
granted by or to him relating to the pro-
duction or use of atomic energy or research
into matters connected therewith; and

(d) any other information in his possession relating
: to any work carried out by him, or on his
behalf or under his direction, in connection
with the production or use of atomic energy
or aah into matters connected therewith.

(2) Any person who—

(a) fails to comply with any notice served on him
under sub-section (1), or

(b) knowingly makes any untrue statement in any
return made in pursuance of such notice,

shall be guilty of an offence. —

48. (1):The Authority may by Order published

in the Gazette make such provision as it thinks
expedient for prohibiting or regulating, subject to
such exceptions, if any, as may be made by or under
the Order—

(2) the importation into, or exportation from,
Ceylon of all radioactive materials, or
radioactive materials of any class or descrip-
tion specified in the Order;

a{b) the production, acquisition, treatment, storage,

transport and disposal of any radioactive
material; and

Power to obtain
information.

Control of
importation,
exportation,
production,
acquisition,
treatment,
storage,
transport and
disposal of
radioactive
materials.


Regulations

for the control
of the sale and
supply of radio-
active materials
and of the use
of irradiating
apparatus, for

certnin purposes.

Safety regula-
tions for certain
occupations.

6 Atcmic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

(c) the acquisition, production, possession, use,
disposal, export or import of any plant
designed or adapted for the production or
use of atomic energy or for research into
matters connected therewith.

(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply
with an Order made under sub-section (1) shall be

guilty of an offence.

19. (1) Regulations may be made, in consultation
with the Minister of Health, regarding—

(a) the sale or supply of any material which
contains more than a specified quantity of a
radioactive chemical element (whether
natural or artificial) and is intended to be
taken internally by, injected into or applied
to, a human being, with particular regard
to the qualifications, and including if
necessary the licensing, of persons who sell
and supply such materials; and

(b) the use, for the purpose of the medical,
surgical or dental diagnosis or treatment of
human beings, of any, or any specified class
or description of, irradiating apparatus,
with particular regard to the: qualifications,
and including, if necessary, the licensing ee
persons who so use such apparatus. i

(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply
with a regulation made for the purposes of ° this
section shal] be guilty of an offence.

20. (1) With respect to any class or description
of premises or places specified in the regulations,
being premises or places in which any radioactive
materials are manufactured, produced, treated,
stored or used or any irradiating apparatus is used,
provision may be made by regulations—

(a) to prevent’ injury being caused by ionizing
radiations to the health of persons employed
at those premises or places or other persons;

(b) to secure that any radioactive waste products
resulting from such manufacture, produc-
tion, treatment, storage or use as aforesaid’
are disposed of safely;


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 7

(c) for the enforcement of measures of environ-
mental protection in respect of persons who
reside in areas where work is carried on in
regard to any source of ionizing radiation,

* including measures for imposing require-
ments as to the erection or structural alter-
ation of buildings or the carrying out of
works; or ,

(d) for® the effective monitoring of equipment,
materials and environment, and the medical

. examination and the treatment, both pro-
phylactic and curative, of persons who are
exposed to ionizing radiation;
and the regulations may, in particular and without
prejudice to the generality of this subd-section,
provide for imposing requirements as to the erection
or structural alteration of buildings or the carrying
out of works.

(2) With respect to the transport of any radio-
active materials, regulations may be made to prevent
injury being caused by such transport to the health
of persons engaged therein and other persons.

(3) Regulations made for the purposes of this
section may provide for imposing requirements,
prohibitions and restrictions on employers, employees
and other persons.

“E(4) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply

with a regulation made for the purposes of this
section shall be guilty of an offence.

24. (1) The officers and servants of the Authority
may, without any such licence, permit or approval as
may be required by any other written law, maintain
and use, on any premises lawfully occupied by the
Authority for laboratory or experimental purposes,
such installations, equipment, and materials as they
may consider, necessary. or desirable for those
purposes.

(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) shall not be
deemed to relieve the Authority of responsibility for
taking reasonable precautions for the safety and
protection of persons and property or for liability
for the consequence of the acts of its officers and
servants in the course of their employment.

, 22. (1) The Authority or any other persons shall
‘Bt produce or develop, or cause the production or
development of, any atomic weapon or part of an
atomic weapon, or conduct or cause to be conducted

2——B 60365 (6/60)

Use of
installations,
equipment and
materials for
laboratory or
experimental
purposes.

No atomic
weapon to be
produced or
developed.


8 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

experimental work with the intention that it shall lead
to explosive nuclear assemblies for atomic weapons.

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offence punishabla,
with imprisonment not exceeding twenty years on con-’
viction after trial by an appropriate court.

Powers of entry 23. (1) The Permanent Secretary may, on the

and inspection. recommendation of the Authority, authorize in
writing any person to enter at all reasonable hours
any premises, (other than premises solely used for
residential purposes), vehicle, vessel or aircraft for
the purpose of ascertaining whether there has been
committed, or is being committed, in or in connection
with the premises, vehicle, vessel or aircraft an
offence under this Act.

(2) The Permanent Secretary may, on the recom-
mendation of the Authority, authorize in writing
any person to enter at all reasonable hours any
premises where such person has reasonable grounds
for believing that work is being carried out for the
purposes of or in connection with the production or
use of atomic energy or research into matters con-
nected therewith, or that there “is any prescribed
substance, or any plant designed or adapted for the
production or use of atomic energy or research into
matters connected therewith, and may inspect te
premises and any articles found therein, and make
copies of, or extracts from, any drawing, plan or
other document found in the premises and, for the ,
purpose of making such copies or extracts, may
remove any such drawing, plan or other document
and retain possession thereof for a period not
exceeding seven days.

(3) Any person who wilfully obstructs any other
erson exercising powers conferred on that person
by sub-section (1), or sub-section (2), shall be guilty

of an offence.

Compulsory 24. Any land required for the purposes of the
acquisition qa Authority shall be deemed to be needed for a public
by the Authority, purpose and may be acquired by the Crown under the
Cap. 460. Land Acquisition Act and transferred to the
Authority.
Compulsory 25. (1) The Permanent Secretary may, on the
plant teen, recommendation of the Authority, and subject to and
quired . . ale : . (
by the in accordance with the provisions contained in the

Bausch Schedule to this Act, compulsorily acquire any plant.


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 9

designed or adapted for the production or use of
atomic energy or research into matters connected
therewith, and transfer the same to the Authority.

(2) In the case of any such plant affixed to any
land as is compulsorily acquired under sub-section (1),
the Permanent Secretary may cause it to be severed
from the land, and shall, if such severance is made,
cause any damage caused by such severance to be
made good.

(3) Such compensation in respect of the acquisition
of any plant under this section shall be paid by the
Permanent Secretary to the person who is the owner
and to any other person who has an interest in the
plant, as may be agreed upon between the Permanent
Secretary and such person or persons with the
approval of the Minister of Finance or, in default of
such agreement, as may be determined by an
arbitrator mutually agreed upon by the Permanent
Secretary and such person or persons or, failing such
last-mentioned agreement, by an arbitrator appointed
by the District Judge of Colombo. The arbitrator
may, if he thinks fit, be assisted by not more than two
assessors, and the fees of the arbitrator and assessors
shall be payable by the Permanent Secretary or such
person or persons in such proportion as the arbitrator

determines.

26. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in the Patents Ordinance or any other
law—

(a) the Permanent Secretary or any person autho-
rized thereto by him may, on the recommen-
dation of the Authority, by notice in
writing served upon the holder of or any
applicant for a patent which in the opinion
of the Authority relates to or can be applied
in connection with the processing or use of
any prescribed material or the production,
application or use of atomic energy, advise
such holder or applicant that it desires to
acquire the rights in the patent or the rights
of the applicant to obtain a patent, as the
case may be, and the service of such a notice
shall have the effect of divesting the person
upon whom it has been served of any such

rights and vesting those rights in the
Authority;

Acquisition of
certain rights
to patents by
the Authority.
Cap. 152,


10 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

(b) if any rights in respect of which a notice has
been served under paragraph (a), have been
assigned or if any licence has been granted
under a patent in respect of which such a
notice has been served, the Permanent Sec-
retary shall simultaneously with the service
of that notice, or as soon as_ possible
thereafter, cause a copy of the notice to be
served upon the assignee or licensee and may
at the same time cause such assignee or
licensee to be informed that it desires to can-
cel the assignment or licence, and in that
event such assignment or licence shall be
deemed to have been cancelled.

(2) A copy of any notice served under paragraph

(2), and of any communication addressed under para-

graph (b) to an assignee of any rights in a patent or

to a licensee under a patent, shall forthwith be trans-

mitted by the Permanent Secretary to the Registrar

Cap. 152. within the meaning of the Patents Ordinance. ;

(3) Such compensation in respect of the acquisi-
tion of any rights to a patent under this section shall
be paid by the Permanent Secretary to the holder,
applicant, assignee, or licensee, hereinafter called
a ‘‘ person interested in the patent’’, as may be
agreed upon between the Permanent Secretary and
such person interested in the patent with the approvals
of the Minister of Finance or, in defaut of such
agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator
mutually agreed upon by the Permanent Secretary and
such person interested in the patent or, failing such -
last-mentioned agreement, by an arbitrator appointed
by the District Judge of Colombo. ' The arbitrator
may, if he thinks fit, be assisted by not more than two
assessors, and the fees of the arbitrator and assessors
shall be payable by the Permanent Secretary or such
person interested in the patent in such proportion as
the arbitrator determines.

Compulsory 27. (1) The Permanent Secretary may, on the re-
ihe commendation of the Authority, cause to be served on
Authority of any person who is party to a contract relating to
content the production or use of atomic energy or research into

matters connected therewith, not being a contract for
the rendering of personal services, a notice in writing ,
stating that on such date as shall be specified in the/
notice the rights and liabilities of that person under
the contract will be transferred to the Authority.


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 11

(2) Where a notice under sub-section (1) is served
on any person, then, subject to any withdrawal of the
notice under the succeeding provisions of this section,
the contract to which the notice relates shall, as re-
gards any rights exercisable, or liabilities incurred on
or after the date specified in the notice in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (1), have effect as if
the Authority were a party to the contract instead of
such person and as if for any reference in the contract
to such person there were substituted a reference to
the Authority.

(3) A notice under sub-section (1) shall contain a
statement to the effect that objections may be made
thereto within such time and in such manner as shall
be specified in the notice, and if any such objection is
duly made and not withdrawn, the Permanent Secre-
tary shall afford an opportunity to the person making
the objections of appearing before and being heard by
‘a person appointed by the Permanent Secretary for
the purpose. The person so appointed shall make a
report on such objections to the Permanent Secretary.

. (4) After considering the objections duly made to
a notice under sub-section (1) and the report made on
such objections under sub-section (3), the Permanent
Secretary may cause to be served on the person on
whom that notice was served a further notice-in writ-
‘ing withdrawing the original notice, and if the origi-
* nal notice has already taken effect, it shall cease to
operate in relation to the contract to which it relates
as regards any rights exercisable, or liabilities in-
curred, on or after the date on which the notice of
withdrawal was served.

(5) Where the rights and liabilities of a party to a
contract are transferred to the Authority under this
section, the Permanent Secretary shall pay to that
party such compensation in respect of any joes suffe-
ved by that party as may be agreed upon between the
Permanent Secretary and that party with the approval
of the Minister of Finance or, in default of such
agreement, as may be determined by an arbitrator
mutually agreed by the Permanent Secretary and that
party or, failing such last-mentioned agreement, by
an arbitrator appointed by the District Judge of
Colombo. The arbitrator may, if he thinks fit, be
assisted by not more than two assessors, and the fees

‘of the arbitrator and assessors shall be payable by the
Permanent Secretary or that party in such propor-
tion as the arbitrator determines.


Funds of the
Authority.

Disclosure of
information
obtained under
the Act,

Punishment for
offences under
this Act,

Advisory
Committee,

12 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

28. (1) Such sums as may from time to time be
granted for the purposes of the Authority by Parlia-
ment or by resolution of the House of Representatives
shall form part of the funds of the Authority.

_ (2) The Authority may utilize its funds for defray-
ing all expenditure incurred in the exercise of its
powers and performance of its functions under this
Act.

(3) Any expense incurred by the Permanent Secre-
tary in the exercise of powers or the performance of
functions under this Act shall be defrayed or paid
out of the funds of the Authority.

29. Any person who, without the consent of the
Authority, discloses any information obtained in the
exercise of powers under this Act, shall be guilty of
an offence.

30. (1) Any person who is guilty of an offence
under this Act shall, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding three
months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
or to both such imprisonment and such fine.

(2) Where any offence under this Act has been com-
mitted by a body corporate, every person who at the
time of the commission of the offence was a director,
general manager, secretary or other similar officer of
that body, or was purporting to act in any such capa-
city, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence unless
he proves that the offence was committed without his
consent or connivance and that he exercised all such
diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as
he ought to have exercised having regard to the
nature of his functions in that capacity and to all the
circumstances.

31. (1) The Minister shall appoint an Advisory
Committee consisting of such number of persons as
may be determined by him. The members of such
Committee shall be persons who have experience of all
or any of the matters specified in sub-section (1) of
section 15. Such Committee shall advise the Autho-
rity on any such question relating to any of the afore-
said matters as may be referred to it by the Authority.

(2) Every member of the Advisory Committee shall -
hold and vacate his office as such member in accord-
ance with the terms of his appointment, but he may


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 18

resign his: office by letter addressed to the Minister.
He shall, on ceasing to be a member of such Com-
mittee, be eligible for reappointment.

(3) The Minister shall appoint one of the members
of the Advisory Committee to be the Chairman of
such Committee.

(4) The Advisory Committee may regulate its pro-
cedure.

32. (1) The Authority shall cause its accounts to
be kept in such form and in such manner as the
Minister may direct.

(2) The Authority shall cause its books to be
balanced as on the thirtieth day of September in each
year and shall, before the thirty-first day of December
next, cause to be prepared an income and expenditure
account and a balance sheet containing a summary of
the assets and liabilities of the Authority made up to
the first-mentioned date. The income and expenditure
account and the balance sheet shall be signed by the
Chairman of the Authority, and by such officer of the
Authority as may be authorized by the Authority to do
so.

(3) The Authority shall have its accounts audited
each year by the Auditor-General. For the purpose of
gssisting him in the audit of such accounts, the
‘Auditor-General may employ the services of any
qualified auditor who shall act under his direction and
control.

(4) For the purpose of meeting the expenses
incurred by him in auditing the accounts of the
Authority the Auditor-General shall be paid from the
funds of the Authority such remuneration as the
Minister may determine with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance. Any remuneration received from
the Authority by the Auditor-General shall, after
deduction of any sums paid by him to any qualified
auditor employed by him for the purpose of such audit,
be credited to the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the expression
** qualified auditor ’? means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of that
Institute; or

Accounts and
audit thereof.


14 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the
partners of which, being a member of that
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute. ;

(6) The Auditor-General and any person assisting

him in the audit of the accounts of the Authority shall
have access to all such books, deeds, contracts,
accounts, vouchers and other documents of the
Authority, as the Auditor-General may consider
necessary for the purposes of the audit, and shall be
furnished by the members or officers of the Authority
with such information within their knowledge as may
be required for such purposes.

(7) The Auditor-General shall examine the
accounts of the Authority and furnish a report—

(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all
the information and explanations required
by him; .

(b) stating whether the accounts referred to in the
report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and fair view of the affairs of the
Authority; and

(c) drawing attention to any item in the accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to the
Senate and the House of Representatives in
any examination of the activities andy:
accounts of the Authority.

(8) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Authority.

Information 33. (1) The Authority shall furnish to the Minister
furnished to, such information as he may call for from time to
-and directions . s o3_ pope g fs

given by, the time in respect of the activities and financial] position

Minister. of the Authority.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, give the
Authority general directions, and, after consultation
with the Authority, give the Authority: special
directions, as to the exercise of the powers and the
discharge of the duties of the Authority, and such
directions shall be carried out by the Authority.

Anoual report. 34. (1) The Authority shall annually prepare a
written report of the Authority’s work and finances
during the year completed, including any information
furnished to, and directions given by, the Minister «
under section 33, and shall transmit to the Minister— ~

(a) a copy of such report;


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969, 15

- (b) a copy of the income and expenditure account
and balance sheet in respect of such year
certified by the Auditor-General; and

(c) acopy of the Auditor-General’s report furnished
. under sub-section (8) of section 32.

(2) The Minister shall lay copies of the reports and
statements referred to in sub-section (1) before the
Senate and the House of Representatives.

85. The Authority may establish and’ regulate a Provident fund.
provident fund for the benefit of all or any of the
employees of the Authority and their departments or
nominees, and may make contributions to such fund
out of the moneys of the Authority.

36. Any Crown land or any Crown building may, Crown land
subject to such conditions as may be determined by the fuilamer
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister for the
time being in charge of the subject of Crown lands,
be made available for the use of, or be alienated to, ‘
the Authority for any purpose of the Authority or
for the residence of any officer or servant of the
Authority.

\qx87. (1) The Authority shall be exempt from the Exemptions
payment of any customs duty on any goods imported vie and”

by the Authority if the Minister in consultation with *«.
the Minister of Finance approves of such exemption.

(2) In the case of any instrument containing any
agreement between the Authority and any other
person and providing for making a payment to the
Authority as a contribution to the general support of
the Authority’s work, both the Authority and such
other person shall be exempt from the payment of any
stamp duty on such instrument.

(3) Any person making a payment to the Authority
as a contribution to the general support of the
Authority’s work, may claim the amount of the pay-
ment as a deduction from income, in the year in which
the payment is actually made, for the purposes of
computing liability for income tax, and the payment

“shall be deemed not to be a taxable gift for the purposes
of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of 1963.

(


Protection of
members, &c., of
the Authority
for action

taken under this
Act or on the
direction of the
Authority,

No writ to
issue against —
person or
property of
a member of
the Authority.

Regulations.

Compensation
for injury.

16 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

88. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against
any member, officer, servant or agent of the Authority
for any act which in good faith is done or purports to
be done by him under this Act or on the direction of
the Authority.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Authority in any
suit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority
before any court shall be paid out of the funds of the
Authority, and any costs paid to, or recovered by, the
Authority in any such suit or prosecution shall be
credited to the funds of the Authority.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is
referred to in sub-section (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any
act which is done or purports to be done by him under
this Act or on the direction of the Authority shall,
if the court holds that such act was done in good faith,
be paid out of the funds of the Authority, unless such
expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

39. No writ against person or property shall be
issued against a member of the Authority in any action
brought against the Authority.

40. (1) The Authority may make regulations
generally for the purpose of giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act and particularly...
in respect of any matter which is stated or required
by this Act to be prescribed, or for or in respect of
which regulations are required or authorized by this
Act to be made.

(2) No regulation made under this Act shall have
effect until it is approved by the Minister, confirmed
by the Senate and the House of Representatives, and
published in the Gazette.

41. (1) If injury is caused to an employee of the
Authority or to any other person by ionizing radiations
from any material on any premises occupied by the
Authority or from any waste discharged in whatever
form on or from any such premises or from any
material in the course of carriage on behalf of the
Authority, the Authority shall be liable to pay com-
pensation to such person in accordance with such
scale as the Minister may specify by Order published
in the Gazette: :

Provided that the claim to such compensation shal¥
be made, notwithstanding the provisions of any other
law, within a period of thirty years, from the date of


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 17

the occurrence which gave rise to the claim or where
the occurrence was a continuing one or was one of a
succession of occurrences, the date of the last event in
tlie course of the occurrence or succession of occurrences
&o which the claim relates.

(2) If any person who has been employed by any
employer in any process in which ionization radiation
occurs, for a continuous period of not less than six
months, contracts any prescribed disease, such
employer shall be liable notwithstanding the provi-
sions of any other written law to pay to such person
compensation in the prescribed manner unless the
emplvuyer proves that the disease had not arisen as a
result of such employment:

Provided always that a claim for payment of such
ccmpensation shall be made to such employer whilst
such person is in the employment of such employer or
within thirty years from the date on which such
person ceased to be employed by such employer.

(3) If any person who has been employed by the
Authority for a continuous period of not less than six
months, contracts any disease specified by the
Minister by Order, the Authority shall be liable to
pay such person compensation specified by the
Minister by Order unless the Authority proves that

‘te disease had not arisen as a result of such employ-
ment:

Provided that the claim to such compensation shall
be made while such person is in the employment of
the Authority or within such time from the date on
which such person ceased to be employed by the
Authority as the Minister may specify by Order.

(4) The compensation referred to in sub-sections (1),
(2) and (8) shall not be less than the sums payable
for any corresponding injury under the Workmen’s
Compensation Ordinance, and where a claim is not
admitted by the Authority, compensation may be
recovered, as far as may be, in the same manner as
in the Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance.

(5) The provisions of this section shall not bar a
person from recovering damages in a court of law,
“but, where damages are awarded the court shall take
into consideration any compensation paid under this
section.

Cap. 189.


18 Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

Interpretation. ‘"42, In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires— wi

** atomic energy ’’ means the energy released from
atomic nuclei as a result of any process, but.
does not include energy released in any”
process of natural transmutation or radio-
active decay which is not accelerated or
influenced by external means;

*‘ material’? means any natural or artificial
material, whether in solid or liquid or in the
form of gas or vapour, and includes any
manufactured article or any article which has
been subjected to any artificial treatment or
process ;

‘* Permanent Secretary ’’’ means. the Permanent
Secretary to the Ministry of which the
Minister is in charge;

** plant ’’? includes any machinery, equipment or
appliance, whether affixed to land or not;

‘* prescribed substance ’’ means uranium, thorium,
beryllium, lithium or any of their compounds,
or any other substance which the Minister
may by notification in the Gazette prescribe,
being a substance which, in his opinion, 4%
or may be used for the production or use of
atomic energy or research into matters
connected therewith; and

‘* radioactive material ’’ means any material which
consists of or contains any radioactive
chemical element whether natural or
artificial.

SCHEDULE [Section 25 (1)].

Procedure for compulsory acquisition of plant

1. Where the Permanent Secretary proposes to acquire any
plant under section 25 of this Act, he shall cause to be served
upon the person appearing to him to be the owner thereof a notice
in writing (hereinafter referred to as a ‘‘ notice of acquisition ’’)
specifying the plant to be acquired and requiring that person to
make to him within a time specified in the notice a written
declaration containing such particulars as may be so specified i¥
regard to the ownership of that plant and to any agreement or
charge by virtue of which any other person has an interest in
that plant.


Atomic Energy Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969 19

2. Upon the service of a notice of acquisition under para-.
‘graph 1’of this Schedule no plant to which the notice relates
shall be removed from the premises in which the article is situate
at the time of the service of the notice without the consent of

“such person as is specified in the notice; and if any person
knowingly removes, or causes or permits to be removed, any
article in contravention of this paragraph, he shall be guilty of
an offence.

8. If it appears to the Permanent Secretary in consequence
of any written declaration made to him in pursuance of para-
graph 1 of this Schedule or otherwise that any person other than
the person on whom the notice of acquisition was served is the
owner of, or has an interest in, any article to which the notice
relates, the Permanent Secretary shall cause to be served a
copy of the notice of acquisition on that other person.

4. <A notice of acquisition shall contain a statement to the
effect that an objection may be made thereto within such time
(not being less than twenty-eight days) and in such manner as
may be specified in the notice, and if any such objection is duly
made and not withdrawn, the Permanent Secretary shall afford
an opportunity to the person making the objection of appearing
before and being heard, by person appointed by the Permanent
Secretary for the purpose, and if the person making the objection

‘P¥uils hingself of the opportunity, the Permanent Secretary may
afford to any other person to whom it appears to the Permanent
Secretary expedient to afford it, an opportunity of being heard
on the same occasion.

5. If any such objection as aforesaid is duly made and not
withdrawn, the Permanent Secretary shall, after considering such
objection and the report of the person appointed by the Permanent
Secretary under paragraph 4 of this Schedule, cause to be served
on the person upon whom the notice of acquisition of or copy
thereof was served a further notice in writing either withdrawing
the notice of acquisition or confirming it as respect all the articles
fo which it relates or such of those articles as may be specified.

6. Any plant with respect to which a notice of acquisition
is served under this Schedule shall—

(a) if no objection is duly made to the notice, vest, absolutely
bn and free from all encumbrances, in the Permanent

Secretary at the expiration of the time for making such
an objection, and


20 Atomic Enerby Authority Act, No. 19 of 1969

' (b) if such an objection is duly made and the notice is confirmed
as respects that article by a notice served under para-
graph 5 of this Schedule, vest, absolutely and free from
all encumbrances, in the Permanent Secretary on the
service of the last-mentioned notice. ‘
