PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 21, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 21st of October, 2022]

PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 27 OF 2022

1Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022

[Certified on 21st of October, 2022]

L.D.O. 11/2022

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, NO. 33 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Petroleum Products(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section shallcome into operation on such date (hereinafter referred to asthe appointed date) as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2. The long title of the Petroleum Products (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 33 of 2002 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) is hereby amended by thesubstitution for the words IN THE ENERGY SUPPLYCOMMITTEE;, of the words IN THE COMMITTEEAPPOINTED BY THE CABINET OF MINISTERS;.

3. (1) In the principal enactment and other written law,every reference to the Energy Supply Committee, inrelation to the principal enactment, shall be read andconstrued as a reference to the Committee appointed undersection 3.

(2) In any notice, communication, form, or other documentissued, made, required or authorized by or under the principalenactment, every reference to the Energy SupplyCommittee, shall be read and construed as a reference tothe Committee appointed under section 3.

4. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

Short title anddate ofoperation

Amendment ofthe long title tothe Act, No. 33of 2002

Replacement ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment

Energy SupplyCommittee tobe referred to asthe Committee

2Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022

3. (1) There shall be a Committee appointedby the Cabinet of Ministers (hereinafter referredto as the Committee), subject to thesucceeding provisions of this section toexercise, perform and discharge the powers,duties and functions hereinafter set out.

(2) The Committee shall consist of thefollowing:

(a)ex-officio members

(i)the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned thesubject of Petroleum, whoshall be the Chairman of theCommittee;

(ii)the Secretary to the Treasuryor his nominee not below therank of Director-General ofthe Treasury;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned thesubject of Economic PolicyDevelopment;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned thesubject of InvestmentPromotion;

(b)the Chairman or Managing-Directorof the Ceylon PetroleumCorporation, established underCeylon Petroleum Corporation Act,No. 28 of 1961, nominated by theMinister;

Appointmentof aCommittee toexercise,perform anddischarge thepowers,duties andfunctionsunder this Act

3Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022

(c)two members appointed fromamong persons who have achievedeminence in the field of petroleumindustry or law.

(3) A member of the Committee appointedunder paragraph (c) of subsection (2), shall holdoffice for the period of two years from the dateof appointment unless such member resignsthe office by letter addressed to the Cabinet ofMinisters or, is removed from office by theCabinet of Ministers, for reasons assigned.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of theCommittee shall be five members and theCommittee may regulate the procedure, inregard to the meetings of the Committee andthe transaction of business at such meetings..

5. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 3 of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as section 3A of that enactment:-

3A. The Committee shall be deemed to be ascheduled institution within the meaning ofthe Bribery Act (Chapter 26) and the provisionsof that Act shall be construed accordingly..

6. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution for thewords the Minister in charge of the subject of Power andEnergy of the words the Minister.

7. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Committeedeemed to bea scheduledinstitutionwithin themeaning ofthe BriberyAct

Insertion of newsection 3A in theprincipalenactment

4Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Ceylon Petroleum Corporation ofthe following new definition:

Minister means, the Minister assigned thesubject and functions relating to this Actunder Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution.;and

(2)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionEnergy Supply Committee.

8. Every licence validly issued under the provisions ofthe principal enactment and stated therein to continue inforce for a period extending beyond the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, shall continue in force for theperiod so stated and every such licensee shall be subject tothe provisions of this Act and any other terms and conditionswhich may be lawfully imposed under this Act and any otherregulation or rule made thereunder.

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

TransitionalProvisions

5Petroleum Products (Special Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 27 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.