PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

OFFENCES COMMITTED UNDER THE
INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR
(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 41 OF 1979

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a ‘Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic |
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 29, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 45 cents — ig AL Postage: 25 cents


Offences Committed under the Influence of Liquor
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 41 of 1979

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]
-L.D.—O. 123/78.

-AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR INCREASED PUNISHMENT IN
RESPECT OF CERTAIN OFFENCES COMMITTED UNDER THE

INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THERE-
WITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

-BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
-Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1, This Act may be cited as the Offences Committed

‘under the Influence of Liquor (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 41 of 1979.

z. Any person who, being under the influence of liquor,
‘in any public place or in any place where it is a trespass
for him to enter and there conducts himself in such a

manner as to cause annoyance to any person shall be guilty
cof an offence.

3. Any person who, being under the influence of liquor,
‘causes damage to public property shall be guilty of an
‘offence and shall be liable upon conviction to be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term of not
less than six months and not exceeding two years and shall
-also be liable to a fine of not less than one thousand rupees
and not exceeding two thousand five hundred rupees.

‘

4, Any person who gives, or causes to be given, to any
child under the age of twelve years any liquor except upon
the order of a duly qualified medical practitioner or in the
case of sickness or apprehended sickness shall be guilty
of an offence.

®

5. (1) Any person who sells to a person under the age of
eighteen years any liquor shall be guilty of an offence and
shall be liable upon conviction to be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term of not less
than six months and not exceeding two years and shall also
be liable to a fine of not less than one thousand rupees and
not exceeding two thousand five hundred rupees.

(2) Any peace officer may seize any liquor in the posses:
sion of any person under the age of eighteen years whom
he finds drinking in any thoroughfare or public place and
any liquor so seized shall be disposed of in such manner
as the Court may direct.

2—A 41913—14,200 (79/05)

Short title.

Causing
annoyance
while
under the
influence
of liquor.

Damage to
public
property
while
under the
influence
of liquor.

Liquor
given to
child
under
twelve
years

of age.

Sale of
liquor to
persons
under
eighteen

years of aga.


Arrest
without
warrant.

. Examination
by medical
practitioner.

Approved
operator to
carry out
the breath

analysis test.

Punishment
for refusing
to be
‘examined.

Enhanced
unishment
respect
of certain
offences,

2

4 Uyences Committed under the Influence of Liquor
- (Special Provisions) Act, No. 41 of 1979

6.. Any peace officer may, notwithstanding anything im
any written law, arrest without warrant any person who
in the opinion of such peace officer is under the influence
of liquor and is committing any offence under sections Z and:
3 of this Act or under those provisions of the Penal Code:
specified in Column 1 of the Schedule hereto and may, in
effecting such arrest, use such force as may be reasonable:
in the circumstances.

7. Where a peace officer arrests any person for an offence
under sections 2 and 3 of this Act or for an offence under
those provisions of the Penal Code specified in Column 1.
of the Schedule hereto, he may—

(a) if he considers that the examination of such persom
by a medical practitioner is necessary for the
purpose of ascertaining whether such person is:
under the influence of liquor, as expeditiously as

. possible cause such person to be examined by a
Government medical officer. The Government.
medical officer shall forthwith report to the peace
officer the result of any such examination ;

(b) if he considers it necessary and facilities are avail--
able for the carrying out of a breath analysis test,.
require such person to submit himself immediately
to such test.

8. The breath analysis test specified in paragraph (b)
of section 7 shall be carried out by an approved operator
in accordance with such regulations as may be prescribed.

9. Any person who refuses to submit himself to an
examination by a Government medical officer or by an
approved operator when called upon to do so under section
7 or resists or obstructs a peace officer in the performance
of his duties under that section shall be guilty of an offence,
and shall be liable upon conviction to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding six months or
to a fine not exceeding five hundred rupees or to both such
imprisonment and fine. |

10. Notwithstanding anything in the Penal Code every
Magistrate’s Court which convicts a person of an offence
set out in Column I of the Schedule hereto shall, notwith-
standing its ordinary powers of punishment, where such
offence has been committed by that person while under the
influence of liquor impose on that person the punishment

set out in the corresponding entry in Column II of that
Schedule


_ Offences Committed under the Influence of Liquor 3
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 41 of 1979

11. (1) A person shall be presumed to be under the
influence of liquor if at or about the time of the commission
of the act he is smelling of liquor or if he conducts himself
in such manner that it may be reasonable to infer that he
has consumed liquor unless evidence to the contrary has
been adduced. ,

(2) The report of a Government medical officer to the
effect that a person is under the influence of liquor or the
report of an approved operator to the effect that the con-
centration of alcohol in a person’s blood is equal to or
exceeds the prescribed limit shall be deemed to be sufficient
evidence of the facts therein contained unless evidence to
the contrary has been adduced.

12. (1) The Magistrate’s Court shall have jurisdiction
to try all offences under this Act.

(2) Every person guilty of an offence under section 2 or
4 of this Act shall on conviction after trial be liable to a
fine of not Jess than one thousand rupees and not exceeding
two thousand five hundred rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term cf not less than one year and
not exceeding two years notwithstanding that such fine or
imprisonment is in excess of the ordinary jurisdiction of
such Court.

13. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles
and provisions of this Act and in particular in respect of
all or any of the following matters :—

(a) all matters required by this Act to be prescribed ;

(b) the mode and manner and the requirements for
carrying out any breath analysis test; and

(c) the concentration of alcohol in a person’s blood at
or above which a person shall be deemed to be
under the influence of liquor for the purposes of
this Act. -

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
Specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be laid
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from

Person
presumed
to be under
influence
of liquor if

he is

smelling
of liquor &c.

All offences
triable by
Magistrate’s
Court.

Regulations.


' 4 Offences Committed under the Influence of Liquor
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 41 of 1979

the date of such disapproval but without prejudice to
anything previously done thereunder. Notification of the
date on which a regulation is deemed to be rescinded shall
be published in the Gazette, :

yoLeEDre 14. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“approved operator” means a peace officer who has
undergone special training in the operation of breath
analysing equipment and who is appointed in that
behalf by the Inspector-General of Police ;

“-breath analysis test” means an analysis of a sample of
a person’s breath carried out for the purposes of
this Act by means of an approved breath analysing
instrument ;

“breath analysing instrument” means an instrument of
a type as may be prescibed ;

“liquor ” includes spirit, wine, toddy, beer, and all liquid
consisting of or containing alcohol ;

“peace officer” has the same meaning as in the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or
other body which was or is established by or under
any written law other than the Companies
Ordinance, with funds or capital wholly or partly
provided by the Government by way of grant, loan
or otherwise ; and ‘

“public property” means any property of the State or
that of any public corporation.

SCHEDULE
Column I Column IT
Enactment and sections Punishments
1. Penal Code — Section 183 Imprisonment for a term which

may extend to nine months
or with fine which may
extend to three hundred
rupees or with both.

2. Penal Code — Section 186 Imprisonment for a term which
may extend to four years.
3. Penal Code — Section 298 Imprisonment for a term which

may extend to five years.

4. Penal Code — Section 314 Imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one year.
