PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
‘SRI-LANKA

MOTOR. TRAFFIC (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 31 OF 1979.

[Certified on 21st May, 1979] .

Printed on the Orders of Government —

Putilished asa Supplement to Part I of the Gazetté of the Democratic
' Socialist Republic of Sri Lanks ‘ot May 25, 1979

‘ -
:

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

oe ee ee

“To BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price; 45cents * ©. © wa Postage : 25 cents


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 1979
ae: [Certified on 21st May, 1979]
L. D--0.25/79. -. x
AN Act TO AMEND THE Motor TRAFFIC AcT.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist HEpubue of Sri Lanka as pollowar —

1. This Act may be cited as the. Motor Traffic
(Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 1979.

2. Section 151 of the Motor Traffic. Act, hereinafter
referred to as the “ pened enactment ”, is hereby amended
as follows :— :

Short title. .

- Amendment

of section 151
of Chapter
203.

(1) by the repeal of sibsestion (1) of that section and He

the substitution therefor, of the following sub-
* section :—

“ (1) No person shall drive a motor vehicle on
a highway after he has consumed alcohol or any
drug.” ;

(2) by the insertion, stmmedintéte after subsection (1) of

that section, of the following new subsections :—

(1a) No person shall drive any omnibus or
hiring car or any other vehicle intended for the
carriage of persons for fee or reward on a highway
after he has consumed alcohol or any Grug,

(13) Any person who drives a motor vehicle on

a highway after he has consumed alcohol or any

‘drug and thereby causes death or injury to any

person, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

driver of a motor vehicle on a highway: has
consumed alcohol he may require such person to
to submit himself immediately to a breath test for
alcohol and that person shall comply with such
requirement.

(b) Where a breath test for alcohol reveals that

such person has consumed alcohol or where such

person refuses to submit himself to such test it shall

be presumed that such person has.consumed alcohol, |
unless evidence to the contrary has been adduced.

(c): Where a police officer suspects that the
driver of a motor vehicle on a highway has consum-
el any drug it shall be lawful for the police eiizen

A 41789—12,350 (79/05) 4

‘ ‘

(1c) (a) Where a police officer suspects that the ©


‘anger

2 Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 1979 _

to produce such person before a Government medi-
cal officer for examination and ‘that person shall
comply with such requirement.

(d) The report of a Government medical officer ~
to the effect that the driver of a motor vehicle on a |
highway has consumed any drug shall be sufficient
evidence of the fact that such person has consumed

any drug unless evidence to ms contrary has been
adduced.

(e) Where such person refuses to submit himself
to any such examination by the Government medical
officer it shall be presumed that he was driving

- after the consumption of drugs unless evidence to .
the contrary has been adduced.

(1p) Regulations may be made prescribing—

’ (i) the mode and manner in which the

breath test: for. alcohol shall be
- conducted ; ;

(ii). the concentration of alcohol in a person’s
blood at or above which a person shall
be deemed to have consumed alcohol ;

(iii) the mode and manner in which any.
examination may be conducted to
ascertain whether a driver of a motor
vehicle has consumed any drug; and _

(iv) the concentration: of any drug in a
person’s blood ‘at or above which a
person shall be deemed to have .
consumed any drug.” ; and |

(3) by the substitution for the marginal note to that
section, of the following marginal note :—

i Driving after the’ consumption of alcohol or
drugs, and reckless or negligent driving.”.

Replacement 3. Section 216 of the principal | enactment is hereby

t
grace the repealed and the following new section substituted
principal therefor :— ;

enactment,

“Penalty for 216. Any person who is guilty of the
driving after — ‘ vi f
the consump- Offence of contravening the provisions ©

» tion of subsection (1) of section 151 shall, on
alcohol or er tetal
drugs. .°° conviction after summary trial before a

Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than
two thousand ‘rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding

tS


Motor Traffic (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of 1979 3

a.

three months. or to both such fine and
imprisonment and to the suspension of his
driving licence for a period not exceeding

: _ twelve months.”,

4, The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 216 of the principal enactment,
and shall have effect as sections 216a and. 216s, of that

enactment :—

“ Penalty for
driving cer-
tain motor
vehicles after
the consump-
tion of alcohol
or drugs.

Penalty for
causing death
or injury

to persons by
driving motor
vehicles after
consumption

of alcohol or

drugs.

216a. Any person who is guilty of the
offence of contravening the provisions of
subsection (1a) of section 151 shall, on
conviction after summary trial before a

Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than ¢

three thousand rupees and to imprisonment
of either description for term not exceeding
six months and to the- cancellation of his
driving licence.

2168. Any person who is ‘guilty of the
offence of contravening the provisions of

subsection (1s) of section 151 shall, on .

conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable—

(a) where he ‘causes death to any person,
-to imprisonment of either description
for a term not less than -two years

and not exceeding ten years. and to

the cancellation of his. driving

licence ;

 (b) where he causes injury to any person,
to a fine not less than five thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding
five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment and to the cancellation
of his driving licence.”.

Insertion of
new sections
216a and
2168 in the
principal
enactment.
