PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF ~
SRI LANKA ~

DEFENCE LEVY (AMENDMENT)
_ ACT, No. 36 OF 1992

- [Certified on 7th August, 1992]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 07, 1992 .

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO. 7

Price: 60 cents.: ee Postage: Re. 1.00

>

“ y


'. Defence Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 36 of 1992

[Certified on 7th August, 1992]
L.D.—O.31/92.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE DEFENCE Levy Act, No. 52 or 1991

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socia-
list Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Defence Levy (Amend-
ment) Act, No. 36 of 1992.

-

2. Section 3 of the Defence Levy Act, No. 52 of 1991.

(hereinafter referred to as “the principal enactment”) is
hereby amended as follows :—

(1) by the substitution in subsection (1) of that section
for all the words and figure from “a defence levy”

to the end of that subsection, of the following words

and figure :—

‘on the turnover (within the meaning of section
5. of the Turnover Tax Act) of that person for that
quarter, a defence levy (hereinafter in this Act re-
ferred to as the “levy ”) at the appropriate rates
specified in the Schedule to this Act ;’; and

(2) by the repeal of paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsec-
tion (2) of that section and the substitution of the
following paragraphs therefor :—

“ (b) the value of any article not being plant,

machinery or fixtures imported by such per-

“son exclusively for use in the manufacture by
such person of any article for export ;

(c) the proceeds from the sale of any article manu-
factured outside Sri Lanka by the person im-
porting such article ; and

(d) the proceeds from the sale of any article to any
exporter, if—

(i) the Commissioner General is satisfied, on
the production of a letter of credit open-
ed in any bank in Sri Lanka in respect
of the export of that article or other
‘documentary evidence, that such article
has in fact been exported from Sri
Lanka; and :

Short title.

Amendment
of section
3 of Act, No.

52 of 1991.


Amendment
of section
4 of the
principal
enactment.

paragraphs :—

Defence Levy (Amendment)
' Act, No. 36 of 1992

(ii) the receipt of the proceeds in foreign ex-
change, from the export of that article
is certified by a bank in Sri: Lanka to
which such proceeds have been remit-

, ted, .

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed by the repeal of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of that
section and the substitution therefor, of the following

\

“ (a) for the quarter commencing on January 1, 1992 —

(i) an amount equivalent to one per centum of
the turnover of that person for the _ first
month of that quarter , on or before the

fifteenth ay dof the second month of
that quarter ;

( fii) an amount equivalent to one per centum of the
turnover of that person for the second
month of that quarter, on or before the
fifteenth day of the third month of that
quarter ; and

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such person
for that quarter reduced by the aggregate
of the amounts paid by him in accordance
with the provisions of sub-paragraph (i)
and of sub-paragraph (ii) of this para-
graph, on or before the fifteenth day of the
month immediately succeeding the end of
that quarter ;__ '

(b) ‘for the quarter commencing on April 1, 1992—

(i) an amount equivalent to one per cntum of the
turnover of that person for the first month
of that quarter, on or before the fifteenth
day of the second month of that quarter ;

(ii) an amount equivalent to three per centum of
the turnover of that person forthe second
month of that quarter, on or before the fif-

teenth day of the third month of that
quarter ; and .


Defence Levy (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 36 of 1992

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such person ,

for that quarter reduced by the aggregate
of the amounts paid by him in accordance
with the provisions of sub-paragraph: (i)
and of sub-paragraph (ii) of this para-
graph, on or before the fifteenth day of the
month immediately succeeding the end of
that quarter ;

{c) for every quarter commencing on or. after July 1,
1992—

o

(i) an amount equivalent to three per centum of |

the turnover of that person for the first
month of that quarter, on or before the
fifteenth day of the second month of that
quarter ;

(ii) an amount equivalent to three per centum of
the turnover of that person for the second
month of that quarter, on or before the fii-
teenth day of the third month of that
quarter ; and /

(iii) the amount of the levy payable by such person
for that quarter reduced by the aggregate of
the amounts paid by him in accordance with
the provisions of sub-paragraph (i) and of
sub-paragraph (ii) of this paragraph, on or
before the fifteenth day of the month imme-
diately succeeding the end of that quarter. ”.

4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amen-
ded by the repeal of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
that section, and the substitution therefor, of the following
paragraph :—

“(a) at the time at which it opens any letter of credit
in any month in a relevant quarter, on an applica-
tion in that behalf being made by any person _ to
whom this Act applies, being an importer of any
article, collect from such person an amount equal
to— ;

. (i) one per centum cf the value of that letter of —

credit, where such letter of credit is opened
prior to the date on which this paragraph
comes into force ; and

Amendment
of section

§ of the
principal
enactmenf. .


Amend-
Ment of
section 6
of the
Principal
enactment.

Addition of
Schedule

to the
principal
enactment,

Retros-
' pective
effect.

Validation.

4 - Defence Levy (Amendment)

Act, No. 36 of 1992

(ii) three per centum of the value of such letter of
credit, where such letter of credit is opened
on or after the date on which this paragraph
comes into force; and”

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed by the subsittution for the words “in respect of the im-
port of any article (other than any plant, machinery or fix-
ture) he shall be “of the words” in respect of any article
(other than any plant, machinery or fixture) imported by
him, or purchased by him from a registered manufacturer
within the meaning of section 46 of the Turnover Tax Act,
being in each case an article which is used exclusively in
such business of manufacture, he shall be”.

6. The following Schedule is hereby added at the end of
the principal enactment ard shall have effect as the Sche-
dule to the principal enactment :—

“ SCHEDULE (Section 3)

Quarter i Rate
for the quarter commencing on .. 1 ver centum ~
January 1, 1992
for the quarter commencing on .. 2.3 per centum
April 1, 1992
for the quarter commencing on .. 3 per nent

July 1, 1992 and October 1, 1992,
respectively. ”. ;

7. The amendments made to the principal enactment by
subsection (2) of section 2 and by section 5 of this Act, shall

be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on July
1, 1992.

8. Where any bank collects for remittance to the Commis-
sioner-General, during the period commencing on May 15,
1992 and ending on the date of commencement of this Act,
from an importer of an article on his opening a letter of
credit, an amount in excess of one per centum of the value
of such letter of credit, such collection shall be deemed, for
all purposes, to have been, and to be, validly made, and
such bank is hereby indemnified against all actions, civil
or criminal, in respect of such collection. ,


Defence Levy (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 36 of 1992

9, Where a person to whom this Act applies is required Transitional

by section 4 of the principal enactment as amended by
section 3 of this Act to pay to the Commissioner-General
in respect of any month or quarter prior to the date of
commencement of this Act, an amount in excess of one
per centum of the turn over of that person for that month
or quarter, as the case may be, such person shall be deemed
for all purposes, to have complied with the requirements
of that section if he pays to the Commissioner-General,
within thirty days of the date of commencement of .- this
Act, the difference between the amount he was required
by section 4 of the principal enactment as amended by
section 3 of this Act, to pay for that month or quarter,
as the case may be, and the amount paid, or-deemed to
have been paid by him for that month or quarter, as the
case may be. Where such difference is not so paid, such
difference shall be deemed to be in default after the expira-
tion of thirty days from the date of commencement of this
Act, and such person shall be deemed to be a defaulter
within the meaning of the principal enactment, with effect
from that date. i

10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shail
prevail.

provision.

Sinhala text
to prevail
in case of
inconsis-
tency.


ee oD et

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 888 (Local),

Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

BUREAU, No. 255 BAUDDHALOKA MAwaTHA, CoLomso 7, before 15th December each
year in respect of the year following
