MoE
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA .
MEDIATION BOARDS (AMENDMENT) ACT,
No. 15 OF 1997
{Certified on 22nd July, 1997 ]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 25, 1997.
PRU AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING. SRI LANKA
TORE PuRcraso aT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU. COLOMBOML,
Price : Rs. 5.60 Postage : Rs. 4.0


Mediation Boards (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 15. of 1997
(Certified on 22nd July, 1997]
LD.—0. 49/91.
‘AN ACT To AMEND THE MEDIATION BOARDS ACT,

No, 72 oF 1988
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Mediation Boards Shor tte.
(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 1997.

2._ Section 7 of the Mediation Boards Act, No. 72 of 1988 Amendment
(hereinafter referred toasthe “principal enactment") ishereby Sfsetion 7 of
amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution, jggg.—
for the words and figures “the certificate of non-settlement
referred to in section 12 or section 14 (2) :" of the words and
figures “a certificate of non-settlement referred to in section
14az”.

3. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows -— of section 9 of

the principal
(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and "men

the substitution therefor, of the following
subsections :-—

(1) Upon receipt of an application under sec-
tion 6 or upon a reference made to him under
section 7 or section 8, the Chairman of a Panel
appointed for a Mediation Board area shall, as-
certain from the disputants their preferences.as to
the manner of constituting aMediation Board, and
shall inaccordance with the preferences expressed
by the disputants, do either of the following :—

(® constitute a Mediation Board under

subsection (2) ; or
(ii) allow the disputants to select a pre-consti-
a-ponese-ipgoopane) ted Board under subsection (3).


Mediation Boards (Amendment)
a Act, No. 15 of 1997
(2) Where all the disputants express a prefer-
ence for the constitution of a Mediation Board
under subsection (1), the Chairman of a Panel
appointed for a Mediation Board area shall, con-
stitute a Mediation Board (hereinafter referred
to as the “Board") of three members,
consisting of—

(a) one member selected by each disputant ;

and

(b) one member selected by the members

selected under paragraph (a),
from the Panel appointed for that Mediation Board
area:

Provided that, where the disputants referred to
in paragraph (a) or the members referred to in
paragraph (6), are unable to agree as to their
respective selections, the Chairman of the Panel
shall make the necessary selection :

Provided further that, where any disputant
referred to in paragraph (a), expresses in writing,
his unwillingness to make a selection under that
paragraph, such selection shall be made by lot
drawn by the Chairman of the Panel. Where the
disputant for any reason, objects to the member

first selected by the drawing of lots, the Chairman
shall make a further selection by drawing lots.

(3) Where all the disputants express a prefer-
ence for the reference of the dispute or offence in
respect of which the application or reference is
made, toa pre-constituted Board, the Chairman of
the panel shall allow the disputants to select any
Board from among the Boards, each consisting of
three members, (including a Chief Mediator
appointed by the Chairman), previously constituted
by the Chairman, from the Panel appointed for that
Mediation Board area. °;


Mediation Boards (Amendment) 4
‘Act, No. 15 of 1997
(2) by therenumbering of subsections (2) and (3) of that
section, as subsections (4) and (5) of that section,
respectively.
(3) in the renumbered subsection (4) of that section,
by the substitution, for all the words and figures
from “ The member selected ” to “ (hereinafter
referred to as the “ Chief Mediator ") :” of the
following —
“The member selected under paragraph (b) of
subsection (2) shall act as the Chief Mediator of
the Board constituted under that subsection : ";
(4) in the renumbered subsection (5) of that section, by
the substitution, for the words “ Upon the
constitution of the Board, ” of the words “ Upon
the constitution or selection of the Board ”.
4. Section 10oftheprincipalenactmentishereby amended Amendment
as follows :— of section 10
ofthe
(1) by thesubstitution, forthe words and figures“ under auPal
subsection (3) of section 9 ”, of the words and
figures “ under subsection (5) of section 9” ;
(2) in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “ ata specified time and place ;" of
the words “at aspecified time and place, and shall
state in such notification that if any one of the
disputants fails tobe presentatany suchconference,
the absence of such disputant shall be stated in the
certificate of non-settlement that may be issued
under section 14A, or in the report submitted to
court under paragraph (b) of section 125".
(3) by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that section
and the substitution therefor, of the following
paragraph :-—


4 Mediation Boards (Amendment)
Act, No. 15. of 1997
*(@) complete its proceedings within the time
limit specified in section 13 and in the
event of failure to do so, proceed under
section 144",
Replacement §, Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
otthe *'* —pealed and the following section substituted therefor -—
principal
Sucinent: “here no 12. Where it is not possible to constitute a
posible" Board undersection9, due tothe absence, after
due notification of one of the disputants or
where, after the constitution of a Board under
section 9, the disputants do not agree to a
settlement or it is not possible to arrive at a
settlement due to the absence, after due noti-
fication of, one of the disputants, the chairman
or the Chief Mediator, as the case may be,
shall—
(@) in the case of an application made under
section 6, proceed under section 144 3
(6) ‘in the case of a dispute referred by any
court under section 7 or section 8, re-
portto such court in the prescribed form
signed by the Chairman or the Chief
Mediator, as the case may be, that it has
not been possible to settle the dispute
by mediation and stating therein the
reasons for non-settlement. ”.
Replacement _ 6. Section 13ofthe principal enactments hereby repealed
of section 13 i . 4
of ea and the following section substituted therefor :—
principal
Snaciment, “Time limit 13. The Board shall, in respect of every
Board must act. dispute or offence before it for settlement by
mediation, take the steps specified in
subsection (I) of section 1! or in section 12—
(@ inthecase of adispute, within sixty days
of the constitution of the Board ;
(b) im the case of an offence, within thirty
days ofthe constitution of the Board.”.


Mediation Boards (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 15 of 1997
__ 7. Section 140fthe principal enactmentishereby amended Amendment
in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution, for all the of section 14
words from “ Where, the resolution of such differences is not fhe
possible, the Board” to the end of that subsection, of the PAneal
words “Where, the resolution of such differences is not .
possible, the Board shall proceed under section 14a.”.
8. The following new sections are hereby inserted imme- Insertion of
diately after section 14 and shall have effect as sections 14a "EW sections
and 148 of the principal enactment :— inthe
“Cenificates of 14, Where a settlement of any dispute or PrnciPal
non-seitlement. offence or the resolution of any differences
that have arisen between the disputants after a
settlement, has not been possible under the
provisions of this Act, the Chairman or the
Chief Mediator, as the case may be, shall issue
acertificate of non-settlementin the prescribed
form signed by the Chairman or the Chief
Mediator, as the case may be, stating that it has
not been possible to settle such dispute or
offence by mediation and stating therein the
reason for non-settlement.

Cenificates of ‘148, (1) A certificate of non-settlement

non-settlement purporting to be issued under section 14a and

Heras in signed by the Chairman or the Chief Mediator,
as the case may be, may be given in evidence
in any action or proceeding instituted in any
court although such person is not called as a
witness.

(2) The court may presume that the
signature on any certificate of non-settlement
is genuine and that the person signing it held
the office he professed to hold at the time he
signed it: .

Provided that, if in any case the court is of
opinion on the application of any party or
otherwise, and for reasons to be recorded, that
it is necessary that the Chairman of the Panel
‘orthe Chief Mediator should be present to give


‘ Mediation Boards (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 15. of 1997
evidence at any proceeding before such coun,
such Chairman or Chief Mediator shall be
summoned as a witness for the purpose of
giving evidence relating to the signing of such
certificate only.”.
‘Amendment 9, Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby
of section 17 amended by the substitution, for the words and figures “cer-
Ea tificate issued under section 12. or subsection (2) of section 14"
eemsieent, of the words and figures “certificate issued under section
° 14a”,
“Amendment 10. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
oriection 24 amended by the insertion, immediately before the definition
principal Of “disputant”, of the following new definition: —
erect: “Chief Mediator” means the member of the Board
selected under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of
section 9 or appointed by the Chairman of the Panel
under subsection (3) of that section ;°.
proms 11. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
Scheduiete hereby amended by the substitution, for item 12 of that
the principal , Schedule, of the following item:—
‘enactment, a
“12. The Chairman and other members shall be
paid such allowances at such rates and subject to such
conditions as may be determined by the Minister with
the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.”,
‘Amendment 12. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is.
Suite Sezond hereby amended by the the substitution, for the item “Causing
the principal hurt by an act which endangers life” appearing in Column Lof
enactment. that Schedule and the corresponding entry in Column II
thereof of the following :-—
“ Causing hurt by an act which endangers life ......328".
Sinhalatextto 13, _Intheeventof any inconsistency between the Sinhala
pena and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
