PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 12, 2005

[Certified on 8th August, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

FINANCE LEASING (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 24 OF 2005

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20051

Short title.

[Certified on 8th August, 2005]

L. D. O. 31/2004.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE LEASING ACT, NO. 56 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Leasing(Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005

2.Section 4 of the Finance Leasing Act, No. 56 of 2000(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe substitution for the words case of a public company,of the words and figures case of a public company, otherthan those referred to in paragraph (a) and (b) ofsection 3

3.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution, for the words twenty one days of thewords seven days.

4.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

24. (1) A lessor may, with the written consentof the lessee obtained at the time of enteringinto the finance lease or thereafter, transfer orassign all or any of the lessors rights under thefinance lease or in relation to any equipmentprovided under the lease or of both, to anyregistered establishment or to any specialpurpose vehicle :

Provided that in the case of a transfer orassignment to a special purpose vehicle, suchtransfer or assignment shall be made only forthe purpose of securitisation and the structurefor securitisation shall be as approved by theCentral Bank.

Amendment ofsection 4 of Act,No. 56 of 2000.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection24 of theprincipalenactment.Transfer orassignment oflessors right.

2Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005

(2) A registered establishement or a specialpurpose vehicle shall effect securitisation onlyin accordance with the structure approvedgranted by the Central Bank and in compliancewith such directions and guidelines as may fromtime to time be issued by the Central Bank.

(3) A transfer or assignment undersubsection (1) shall not relieve the transferor orassignor of his duties

(a)under the finance lease or alter the natureor legal effect of such lease; or

(b)insofar as they relate to any equipmentprovided under the terms of the financelease.

(4) Upon a transfer or assignment by thelessor as provided for in subsection (1) to aspecial purpose vehicle of his rights in a motorvehicle within the meaning of the Motor TraficAct (Chapter 203),

(a)the transferee or the assignee shall,notwithstanding anything to the contraryin the Motor Traffic Act (Chapter 203),be deemed to be the absolute owner ofthe motor vehicle and the transferee orthe assignee shall within seven days afterthe transfer or assignment, as the case maybe, apply to the Commissioner to havethe name of the transferee or assingneeentered as the absolute owner of thevehicle in the appropriate registermaintained in such form as may beprovided by the Commissioner, for suchpurpose. The application shall beaccompanied by the fee thereto prescribedunder the aforesaid Act and a copy of theinstrument of transfer or assignment as thecase may be. Upon the Commissioner

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20053

being satisfied on the contents of thedocument forwarded to him with theapplication, that the transfer or assignmenthas been effected under a securitisationstructure approved by the Central Bank,he shall cause the name of the transfereeor assignee, as the case may, be to beentered as absolute owner of the vehiclein the appropriate register maintained byhim ; and

(b)the transferee or assignee may from thedate of registration, excerise all rightsunder the aforesaid Act or the financelease which the transfereor or assignormay have exercised, prior to the transferor assignment of his rights undersubsection (1).

For the purposes of this section Commissionermeans the Commissioner of Motor Trafficappointed under section 204 of the Mortor TrafficAct (Chapter 203)..

5.Section 38 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :-

38. Every registered establishment andevery special purpose vehicle shall be deemedto be a lending institution within the meaning,and for the purposes, of the Credit InformationBureau of Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1990..

6.Section 39 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

39. Every person who-

(a)carries on finance leasing business incontravention of the provisions ofsection 2 ;

Replacement ofsection 38 of theprincipalenactment.A registeredestablishmentand specialpurposevehicledeemed to bea lendinginstitution.

Replacement ofsection 39 of theprincipalenactment.Offences.

4Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005

(b)fails to comply with the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 5 ;

(c)fails to pay the annual registration feeas required by section 6 ;

(d)fails to provide the particulars requiredunder section 7 ;

(e)alters the particulars contained in theoperating manual or the Memorandumor Articles of Association incontravention of the provisions ofsection 8 ; or

(f)contravenes any regulation made underthis Act or fails to comply with anydirection or notice issued under this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act. .

7.Section 43 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion, immediately after the definitionof the expression Monetary Board, of the following newdefinitions :

securitization means the issuance of securities by aspecial purpose vehicle which are backed by anyassets consisting of any or all the rights in a financelease or any equipment forming the subject matterof a finance lease or of both, transferred or assignedby a lessor in favour of such special purposevehicle ;

special purpose vehicle means a body corporate orunincorporate, including a trust, established solelyfor the purpose of securitisation and for activitiesconnected therewith or incidental thereto ;.

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 44 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 44A of the that enactment :

Amendmentof section 43of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 44A inthe principalenactment.

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20055

44A. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions ofsubsection (1) of section 44 of the principalenactment, a person who was required to beregistered under that subsection within theperiod of time stipulated therein and who hasnot obtained a registration on the date of thecoming into operation of this Act

(a)shall not be deemed to have committedan offence under the provisions of theprincipal enactment and consequentlyany agreements entered into by suchperson shall be deemed to be valid ;

(b)may continue to carry on the businessof finance leasing for a period of twoyears from the date of the coming intooperation of this Act ; and

(c)shall, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (2) of this section, be requiredwithin the period referred to inparagraph (b) of this subsection, toapply for and obtain a Certificate ofRegistration under the principalenactment, to continue to carry on suchfinance leasing business.

(2) A person shall not be eligible to beregistered under paragraph (c) of subsection (1)of this section, unless such person is a publiccompany incorporated under the CompaniesAct, No. 17 of 1982 having a minimum issuedand paid up capital of such amount as shall beprescribed, provided that the amount shall notexceed the amount prescribed as minimumissued and paid up capital under paragraph (c)of section 3 of this Act.

Registrationof personswho failed toregisterunder section44 of theprincipalenactment.

6Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005

(3) Every application made for registrationunder this section, shall be accompanied by -

(a)the documents referred to in section 4of the principal enactment;

(b)a copy of the audited balance sheet andthe profit and loss account for the yearpreceding the date of submitting theapplication; and

(c)the prescribed fee.

(4)The Director may in addition to thedocuments referred to in subsection (3), requestan applicant to submit such further documentsor information as he may consider necessaryand it shall be the duty of the applicant tocomply with any such request.

(5) The provisions of subsection (2) ofsection 44 shall apply in respect of a personreferred to in subsection (1) of this section.

(6) The Director in concurrence with theMinister may by notice issued in that behalf,require a person registered under this section,to increase within the time specified therein ,its minimum issued and paid up capital to suchamount as specified in such notice. Providedthat the minimum issued and paid up capital asincreased shall not exceed the amountprescribed under paragraph (c) of section 3.

(7) Where any registered person fails tocomply with any requirement under subsection(6), the Director shall have the authority torestrict or limit the finance leasing business or

Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 20057

any other transactions being carried on by suchperson, until the requirement contained in theaforesaid notice is complied with..

9.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

8Finance Leasing (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.