PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

=

PROHIBITION OF RAGGING AND OTHER
FORMS OF VIOLENCE IN EDUCATIONAL
INSTITUTIONS ACT, No. 20 OF 1998

[Certified on 29th April, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of Apri! 30, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO SE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO [

Price : Rs. 6.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Prohibition of Ragging and other ‘forms of Violence
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

[Certified on 29th April, 1998}
L.D.—O.7998.

AN ACT To ELIMINATE RAGGING AND OTHER FORMS OF
VIOLENCE, AND CRUEL, INHUMAN AND DEGRADING
TREATMENT, FROM EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic, Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Prohibition of Ragging
and Other Forms of Violence in Educational Institutions
Act, No. 20 of 1998.

2. (1) Any person who commits, or participates in,
Tagging, within or outside an educational institution, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable, to rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years and may
also be ordered to pay compensation of an amount determined
by court, to the person in respect of whom the offence was
committed for the injuries caused to such person.

(2) A person who, whilst committing ragging causes
sexual harassment or grievous hurt to any student ora member
of the staff, of an educational institution shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding ten years and may also be ordered to pay
compensation ofan amount determined by court, to the person
in respect of whom the offence was committed for the injuries
caused to such person.

3. Any person who, within or outside an educational
institution, threatens, verbally or in writing, to cause injury to
the person, reputation or property of any student or a member
of the staff, of an educational institution (in this section
referred to as “the victim”) or to the person, reputation or

2—D 047365—8,550 (98/03)

Short title.

Ragging.

Criminal
intimidation.


Hostage taking.

Wrongiul restraint.

Unlawful
confinement.

2 Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

property of some other person in whom the victim is interested,
with the intention of causing fear in the victim or of compelling
the victim to do any act which the victim is not legally required
to do, or to omit to do any act which the victim is entitled to
do, shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
éonviction after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable
to rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding five years.

~ 4 Any person who does any act, by which the personal
liberty and the freedom of movement of any student or a
member of the staff of an educational institution or other
person within such educational institution or any premises
under the management and control of such educational
institution, is testrained without lawful justification and for
the purpose of. forcing such student, member of the staff or
person to take a particular course of action, shall be guilty of
an offence under this Act and shall on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to rigorous
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.

5. Any person who unlawfully obstructs any student or
a member of the staff of an educational institution, in such a
manner as to prevent such student or member of the staff from
proceeding in any direction in which such student or member
of the staff, has a right to proceed, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate be liable to rigorous imprisonment for a
term not exceeding seven years.

6. Any person who unlawfully restrains any student ora
member of the staff of an educational institution in such a
manner as to prevent such student or member of the staff
from proceeding beyond certain circumscribing limits, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction
after summary trial before a Magistrate be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years.


Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence 3
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

7. (1) Any person who, without lawful excuse, occupies,
by force, any premises of, or under the management or control
of, an educational institution shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act, and shall on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
ten years or to a fine not exceeding ten thousand rupees or to
both such imprisonment and fine.

(2) Any person who causes mischief in respect of any
property of, or under the management or control of, an
educational institution shail be guilty of an offence under
this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term to not
exceeding twenty years and a fine of five thousand rupees or
three times the amount of the loss or damage caused to such
property, which ever amount is higher.

_ 8. Where a person is convicted of an offence under this
Act, the court may, having regard to the gravity of the
offence— :

(a) in any case where the person convicted is a student of
an educational institution, order that such person be
expelled from such institution ;

(b

—

in any case where the person convicted is a member
of the staff of an educational institution, order that
such person be dismissed from such educational
institution.

9. (1) A person suspected or accuscu us vuinmitting an
offence under subsection (2) of section 2 or section 4 of this
Act shall not be released on bail except by the judge of a
High Court established by Article 154P of the Constitution.
In exercising his discretion io grant bei! such Judge shail have
regard to the provisions of section 14 of the Bail Act. No. 30
of 1997, :

Forcible occupation
and damage to
property, of an
educational
institution.

Orders of expuision
or dismissal.


Certain provisions
of the Code of
Criminal Procedure
Act not to apply to
persons convicted
or found guilty of
an offence under
this Act.

Offences under this
Act deemed to be
cognizable
offences.

Certificate.

Admissibitity of
statement in
evidence.

4 Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

(2) Where a person is convicted of an offence under
subsection (2) of section 2 or section 4 of this Act, and an
appeal is preferred against such conviction, the Court
convicting such person may, taking into consideration the
gravity of the offence and the antecedents of the person
convicted, either release or refuse to release, such person on —
bail. :

10. Notwithstanding anything in the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979—

(a) the provisions of section 303 of that Act shall not apply
. in the case of any person who is convicted,

(b) the provisions of section 306 of that Act shall not apply
_ in the case of any person who pleads or is found guilty,

by or before any court of any offence under subsection (2) of
section 2 or section 4 of this Act.

11. All offences under this Act shall be deemed to be
cognizable offences for the purposes of the application of the
provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of
1979, notwithstanding anything contained in the First
Schedule to that Act.

12. Where in any prosecution for an offence under this
Act, a question arises whether any person is a student or a
member of the staff of an educational institution or whether
any premises or property is the property of, or is under the
management and control of, an educational institution a
certificate purporting to be under the hand of the head or other
officer of such educational institution to the effect that the
person named therein is a student or a member of the staff of

_ such educational institution, or that the premises or property

‘specified therein is the property of, or is under the management

and control of, such educational institution, shall be admissible
in evidence without proof-of signature and shall be prima
facie evidence of the facts stated therein.

13. (1) If in the course of a trial for an offence under this
Act, any witness shall on any material point contradict either
expressly or by necessary implication a statement previously


Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence 5
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

given by him in the course of any investigation into such
offence, it shall be lawful for the Magistrate if, after due
inquiry into the circumstances in which the statement was
made, he considers it safe and just —

(a) to act upon the statement given by the witness in the
course of the investigation, if such statement is
corroborated in material particulars by evidence from
an independent source; and

(6) to have such witness at the conclusion of such trial,
tried before such court upon a charge for intentionally
giving false evidence in a stage of a judicial

proceeding.

—

(2) At any trial under paragraph (4) of subsection (1) it
shall be sufficient to prove that the accused made the
contradictory statements alleged in the charge and it shall not
be necessary to prove which of such statements is false.

14. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition to,
and not in derogation of, the provisions of the Penal Code,
the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degradging Treatment or Punishment Act, No. 22 of 1994 or
any other law,

15. Every Court shall give priority to the trial of any
person charged with any offence under this Act and to the
hearing of any appeal from the conviction of any person for
any such offence and any sentence imposed on such
conviction.

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

17. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires —
“criminal force”, “fear”, “force”, “grievous hurt”, “hurt”

and “mischief” shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them in the Penal Code;

Provisions of this
Act to be in dddition
to and not in:
derogation of the
provisions of the
Penal Code &c.

Priority for
trials and

appeals under
this Act.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


6 Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

“educational institution” means —

(a

(b

) a Higher Educational Institution;

) any other Institution recognized under Chapter
IV of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;

(c) the Buddhist and Pali University established by

the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 74 of 1981;

(d) the Buddha Sravaka Bhikku University,

(e

established by the Buddha Sravaka Bhikku
’ University Act, No. 26 of 1996;

) any Institute registered under section 14 of the

Tertiary and Vocational Education Act, No. 20
of 1990;

+

(f) any Advanced Technical Institute established

under the Sri Lanka Institute of Technical
Education Act, No. 29 of 1995;

(g) a Pirivena registered under the Pirivena

(h

(i

Education Act, No. 64 of 1979 and receiving
grants from State funds and includes a Pirivena
Training Institute established under that Act;

) the Sri Lanka Law College;
) the National Institute of Education established

by the National Institute of Education Act, No.
28 of 1985;

{/) a College of Education established by the

Colleges of Education Act, No. 30 of 1986, ora
Government Training College;



Prohibition of Ragging and other forms of Violence 7
in Educational Institutions Act, No. 20 of 1998

{k) a Government school or an assisted school or
an unaided school, within the meaning of the
Education Ordinance (Chapter 185);

and includes any other institution established for the
purpose of providing education, instruction or
training ; ,

“head of an educational institution” means the Vice-
Chanceller, Mahopadyaya, Director, President,
Principal or any other person howsoever designated
charged with the administration and management of
the affairs of such educational institution;

“Higher Educational Institution” has the meaning assigned
to itn the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;

“ragging” means any act which causes or is likely to cause
physicai or psychological injury or mental pain or
fear to a student or a member of the staff of an
educational institution; .

“student” means a student of an educational institution;

“sexual harassment” means the use of criminal force,
words or actions to cause sexual annoyance or
harassment to a student or a member of the staff, of
an educational institution;


i

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT Pusuicannons Bureau, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roao, Cotomeo 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
