PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SURCHARGE ON INCOME TAX
ACT, No. 7 OF 1989 .

[Certified on 11th May, 1989]

_ Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 12, 1989

, PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 90 cents. : '. Postage : 75 cents.


Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989
[Certified on 11th May, 1989]

L,.D.—O, 12/89.

Aw ACT TO IMPOSE A SURCHARGE ON EVERY PERSON CHARGEABLE
WITH INCOME TAX FOR THE YEARS OF ASSESSMENT COMMENCING
RESPECTIVELY ON Aprit. 1, 1989, AND ON Aprit 1, 1990, By
REFERENCE TO THE INCOME TAX PAYABLE BY SUCH PERSON FOR
FACH SUCH YEAR OF ASSESSMENT; AND TO PROVIDE FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAI, THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Surcharge on Income
Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989.

.

2 Every person who, under the Inland Revenue Act, is
chargeable with income tax for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1989, but ending not later
than March 31, 1991, (hereinafter in this Act referred to as
“a relevant year”) shall, notwithstanding anything
contained in any other written law, be liable to pay a
surcharge on the income tax payable by him for a relevant
year (hereinafter in this Act referred to as “ the surcharge ”),
calculated at the rate of fifteen per centum of the income
tax payable by such person for that relevant year.

3. Every person who is liable to pay a surcharge under
this Act, shall notwithstanding that no assessment has been
made on him, pay to the Commissioner-General— |

(i) (a) not less than fifty per centum, on or hefore

August 15, 1989, and
_(b) the balance on or before November 15, 1989,
of the amount of the surcharge payable by him for the
relevant year commencing on April 1, 1989, and
(ii) (a) not less than fifty per centum, on or before
August 15, 1990, and

(b) the balance on or before November 15, 1990,

of the amount of the surcharge payable by him for the

relevant year commencing on April 1, 1990.

4. Every employer who employs any erployee from *
whose remuneration income tax for any relevant year is.

deductible, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter XV |

—F5 004416—10.180 (89/04)

Short
title.

Imposition
of the
surcharge on
income

tax,

_ Dates for

payment
of the
surcharee.

Employer
o deduct

the

surcharge.


Surcharge
jn default
and sums
added.
thereto.

2 Surciarge on Income.Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989

of the Inland Revenue Act (not being an employee who is
deemed by subsection (7) of section 67 of ene Act, to be
a non-resident) shall also deduct—
(a) for the relevant year commencing on April 1, 1989,—
ney) from the remuneration payable to such emplo-
yee for the month of July 1989, 74 per centum,
and 2 ek ,

. ii) from the remuneration payable to such em-
_ ployee for the month of October 1989, 74 per
centum,

of the total income tax. deductible from the
“remuneration of that employee for that year ; and
(b) for the relevant year commencing on April 1, 1990,—

(i) from the remuneration payable to such em-
ployee for the month of July 1990, 74 per
.centum, and

(ii): from: the remuneration, payable: tor such em-

ployee for the month of Octobe? 1990, 74 per:

: centum,

‘=! of: the ‘total income tax deductible for that yeah
from the remuneration of that employee,.

as the surcharge payable under this Act.

Where however, the aggregate of the deductions made
under this section by any: employer, from! the remuneration
payable to any employee in his employment, for the months
of July and October in any relevant year, is less than fifteen ©
per centum of the income tax deducted from the remunera-
tion of such employee for that relevant year; the employer
shall deduct a further amount equal to the amount of the
deficit, from the remuneration payable to that employee for
the month of March i in that relevant year. *”

ad

5. rab) Where an instalment of the surcharge payable
for a relevant year or a part of such instalment is not paid
on-or before the dates specified in section 3 for the pay- -

‘ment of that instalment, such instalment of the surcharge

or part thereof, shall be deemed to be in default and—

(a) where the surcharge is payable by one person, ach
person; and =. to 3

(6) where the surcharge is payable by more than one
person or by a partnership, each of such persons | or
each partner in such partnership,

shall be deemed to he a 2 defaulter for the Purposes | of this
Act. ss Ye

ood


Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989 3

(2) Where any surcharge payable by any person for a
relevant year is in default, the defaulter shall, in addition
to the surcharge in default, pay as a penalty—.

(a) a sum equal to five per centum of the amount in
default ; and

(£) ‘where any amount in default is not paid before the
expiry of thirty days after it has begun to be in —
default, a further sum equivalent to five per centum

of the amount in default in respect of each further
period of three months or part of such period during
- which it is in default :
Provided that—

(i) the total amount payable as a pendity under
the preceding provisions of this section shall
in no case exceed fifty per centum of the sur-
charge in default ; 7

‘ (ii) where any person who is liable to pay the
surcharge under this Act for a relevant year
s'- pays as such surcharge—__

(a) for the relevant year commencing “on

| ~ April 1, 1989,— ie
za 7 (i) not less than 73 per centum on or
: 2 before August 15, 1989, and

' (ii) not less than 7% per centum on or
' before November 15, 1989,

of the income tax payable by him under the
Inland Revenue Act, for:the year of assess- °
ment commencing on April 1, 1988; and

(b) for the relevent year commencing on
April 1, 1990—

vj aj. os (i) not less than 73 per centwm on or
_ before August 15, 1990, and

_ (ii) not less than 74 per centum on or
before November 15, 1990,

of the income tax payable by him under the
Inland Revenue Act for the year of assess- ~
ment COMMS NC ae on mere 1, 1989, °

such person shall not be liable to any penalty under
_,this section, in respect of the ° payments he is
required to make under section 3 if he pays the

3—B8 004416 (89/04)


Certain
provisions
of the
Inland
Revenue
Act to
apply.

4 Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989

excess of the surcharge payable by him for that
‘. relevant year over the amount paid by him, on or
before— -

November 30, 1990, in the case of the relevant
year commencing on April 1, 1989, and.

November 30, 1991, in case of the relevant year
commencing on April 1, 1990,

(iii) the Commissioner-General may reduce or waive
any penalty payable under this section if it
appears to him that such reduction or waiver |
is just and equitable in all the circumstances
of the case.

6. The provisions of Chapter XIII and Chapter XV to

Chapter XIX and Chapters XXI to XXVI of the Inland

Revenue Act, relating to the furnishing of returns relating
to income tax payable under that Act, the deduction of in-
come tax, assessment, appeals against assessment, payment,
recovery and refund of such tax shall, mutatis mutandis.
apply to the furnishing of returns relating to a surcharge
payable under this Act, and the deduction, assessment,
appeals against assessment, payment, recovery and refunds,
of such surcharge subject to the following modifications :—

(a) the requirement imposed by this Act, on any person
_ to furnish a return of the surcharge payable by him
under this Act, for any relevant year shall be
deemed to have been sufficiently complied with if
such person furnishes a return of his income for
that year under section 92(1} or section 92(2) of

_ the Inland Revenue Act ;

(b) where an Assessor makes an assessment or an addi-
tional assessment on any person, ‘of the income tax
payable by such person under the Inland Revenue

* Act for any relevant year, the Assessor may, at the
~ game time and in the same form, make an assess-
ment or additional assessment, as the case may be,
” of the surcharge payable by such person for that
year under this Act. The assessments or additional
assessments, as the case may be, shall be deemed
to be separate _ assessments oot under the
respective Acts ;


Surciarge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989 5

(c) where notice of assessment is given to any person
under section 116 of the Inland Revenue Act stating
the amount of income tax charged on such person
under the Inland Revenue Act, for any relevant
year, such notice may also include the amount of
the surcharge charged on such person under this
Act, for that year. The notices shall be deemed to
he separate notices issued under the respective Acts ;

(a) where an appeal is made against an assessment af
‘income tax payable under the Inland Revenue Act
for any relevant year, such appeal shall be deemed

- to include an appeal against the surcharge payable
under this Act, for that year and shall be determined
accordingly ; and

(¢) where under Chapter XXI of the Inland Revenue Act,
‘a certificate is issued to a Magistrate or a notice,
statement or certificate is issued to any person, such
notice, statement or certificate, as the case may be,
may also include the particulars of any surcharge
in default under this Act. The notices, statements
of certificates, as the case may be, shall be deemed
to be separate notices, statements or certificates

_ issued under the respective Acts.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala and sinhala
text to

Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail. prevail in
#2 ci ’ ; case 0
inconsistency.

8. .In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires— Interpre-
; : tation.
‘assessable income”, “ Assessor”, “ Commissioner-Gene-
ral”, “non-resident company” “person”, “ profits
and income”, “resident company”, and “year of
assessment” have the respective meanings assigned
to them in the Inland Revenue Act;

“ employer”, “employee” and “remuneration” have the
respective meanings assigned to them in Chapter
XV of the Inland Revenue Act;

“income tax” in section 2 and with reference to any per- .
_ son and any relevant year—

(i) in relation to a resident company, means the
income tax payable, under section 33 (1) (a)
of the Inland Revenue Act, by that company
for that relevant year ;


if Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 7 of 1989

(ii) in relation to a non-resident company means the
income tax payable, under the Inland Reve-
nue Act, by that company for that relevant
year less any income tax payable by that com-
pany for that year, under sub-paragraph (i)
or sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (b) of
subsection (1) of section 34 of that Act ;

(i) in relation to a resident individual whose profits
and income for that relevant year include any
profits from employment referred to in para-
graph (c) of section 4 of the Inland Revenue
Act, means such income tax as would have
been payable, under the Inland Revenue Act,
by such individual had such profits from em-
ployment not formed part of his profits and.
income for that relevant year ;

(iv) in relation to an individual who is deemed by
subsection (7) of section 67 of the Inland
Revenue Act to be a non-resident, means such
income tax as would have been payable,
under the Inland Revenue Act, by such indi-
vidual had his profits from employment in
Sri Lanka for that relevant year not formed
part of his profits and income for that sap
and re 3

(v) in relation to any other person, means the in-
come tax payable, under the Inland Revenue
Act, by that person for that relevant year ;
and

= Inland Revenue Act” means the Inland Revenue Act,
No. 28 of 1979..
