PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SRI LANKA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

ACT, No. 19 OF 2017

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd of October, 2017]

Price : Rs. 13.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 06, 2017

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

2PL 0049752962 (01/2017)

Short title.

[Certified on 03rd of October, 2017]

L.D.O. 1/2016.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ANATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGY ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

IN SRI LANKA; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENT COUNCIL AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS the seventeen Sustainable Development Goalsand one hundred and sixty nine associated targets wereadopted by United Nation Member States in Two ThousandFifteen:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to design, develop andimplement a National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment and facilitate all agencies responsible and tofollow up and monitor the progress:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka would set its own nationaltargets guided by the global level of ambition but takinginto account national interest and circumstances and alsoincorporate such seventeen Sustainable Development Goalsin national planning processes, policies and strategies inthe relevant ongoing processes in the economic, social andenvironmental fields:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka SustainableDevelopment Act, No. 19 of 2017.

2.The objects of this Act shall be to

(a)ensure that the National Policy and Strategy onSustainable Development is prepared inaccordance with section 11 of this Act and

Preamble.

Objects of thisAct.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 20172

provide the legal framework for developing andimplementing such National Policy and Strategyon Sustainable Development;

(b)ensure an ecologically efficient use of natural,social and economic resources;

(c)to promote the integration and maintain theequipoise of environmental, economic andsocial factors in the making of all decisions bygovernment; and

(d)formulate strategies in accordance withparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL

3.(1) There shall be established for the purpose of thisAct, a Council called the Sustainable Development Council(hereinafter referred to as the Council).

(2) The Council shall, by the name assigned to it by thissection be a body Corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

4.(1) The Council shall consist of the followingmembers:

(a)the ex-officio members

(i)the Secretary to the President;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of SustainableDevelopment;

Establishment ofthe SustainableDevelopmentCouncil.

Constitution ofthe Council.

3Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of National Planning or hisnominee;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Environment or hisnominee; and

(b)eight other members (hereinafter referred to as theappointed members), appointed by thePresident

(i)two members appointed by him on his ownvolition;

(ii)one member nominated by the PrimeMinister;

(iii)two members nominated by the Ministerassigned the subject of SustainableDevelopment; and

(iv)three members out of the nine personsnominated by the Provincial Councils; at theexpiration of the term of office of suchmembers appointed under this sub-paragraph,the balance number of persons nominatedby the Provincial Councils shall beconsidered for second and third appointmentin rotation:

Provided however, in the event a matterpertaining to any Provincial Council is takenup for discussion at any meeting of theCouncil, the member nominated by suchProvincial Council shall have the power toparticipate at such meeting.

(2) The Chairman of the Council shall be appointed bythe President from among its members.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 20174

(3) Every appointed member shall possess academic orprofessional qualifications and wide experience in science,economics, environmental science or social science andpossesses specific experience in relation to sustainabledevelopment.

(4) Every appointed member other than the appointedmembers under sub-paragraph (iv) of paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) shall unless he vacates office earlier by death,resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three yearsfrom the date of his appointment and shall unless he hasbeen removed, be eligible for reappointment.

(5) Every appointed member under sub-paragraph (iv) ofparagraph (b) of subsection (1) shall unless he vacates officeearlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for aterm of one year from the date of his appointment and shallunless he has been removed, be eligible for reappointment.

(6) The President may, if he considers it expedient to doso, remove from office any appointed member after assigningreasons therefor.

(7) Any appointed member may, at any time resign hisoffice by a letter to that effect, addressed to the Presidentand sent by registered post.

(8) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignationor removal of any appointed member, the President mayhaving regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection(1) appoint any other person to succeed such member. Anymember so appointed shall hold office for the unexpiredterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(9) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not lessthan three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties,it shall be the duty of such member to inform the Presidentin writing of such inability. The President may, on receipt ofsuch information, having regard to the provisions ofparagraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint some other person toact in his place.

5Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

Quorum andmeetings of theCouncil.

5.(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall befive members.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of theCouncil. In the absence of the Chairman from any meetingof the Council, the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Sustainable Development shallpreside at such meeting.

(3) The Council shall hold its meetings once in everythree months in every year.

(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of theCouncil shall be decided by the vote of the majority ofmembers present at such meeting. In the case of an equalityof votes, the Chairman shall, in addition to his vote have acasting vote.

(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Council may regulate the procedure in relation to themeetings of the Council and the transaction of business atsuch meetings.

6.No act or proceeding of the Council shall be invalidby reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the Councilor any defect in the appointment of a member of the Council.

7.The members of the Council shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Minister assigned thesubject of Finance.

8.A person referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection(1) of section 4 shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Council

(a)if he is or becomes a member of, Parliament, anyProvincial Council or any local authority;

Acts orproceedings ofthe Councildeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy.

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Council.

Disqualificationfrom being amember of theCouncil.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 20176

(b)if he has been declared an insolvent or an un-discharged bankrupt under any law in Sri Lanka orany other country;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or anyother country found or declared to be of unsoundmind;

(d)if he is convicted of an offence involving in moralturpitude and punishable with imprisonment for aterm not less than six months;

(e)if he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by a Court of Sri Lanka orany other country; or

(f)if he has any financial or other interest as is likely,to affect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Council.

9.(1) The seal of the Council shall be in the custody ofsuch person as the Council may decide from time to time.

(2) The seal of the Council may be altered in such manneras may be determined by the Council.

(3) The seal of the Council shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of theCouncil and in the presence of two members of the Councilwho shall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence.

(4) The Council shall maintain a register of the instrumentsand documents to which the seal of the Council has beenaffixed.

10.The Powers, functions and duties of the Councilshall be

(a)to facilitate the achievement of national, regionaland international commitments relating tosustainable development;

Seal of theCouncil.

Powers,functions andduties of theCouncil.

7Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

(b)to formulate National Policy and Strategy onSustainable Development in consultation and withthe concurrence of all relevant parties and nineProvincial Councils and place before the Cabinetof Ministers for approval;

(c)to review and update the National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development periodicallyas and when the Cabinet of Ministers so decides;

(d)to issue guidelines relating to sustainabledevelopment to the ministries, provincial councilsand project approving agencies in respect of newdevelopment projects;

(e)to facilitate and monitor the mechanisms andprogress review processes of the implementation ofsuch National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment;

(f)to appoint expert committees to study any specificmatter;

(g)to identify sustainable development standards andecological footprint indicators;

(h)to promote sustainable development includingresearch and development, innovation, educationawareness and eradication of poverty;

(i)to identify, introduce and follow up themechanisms, audit mechanisms and all other mattersrelating to sustainable development;

(j)to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire, anyimmovable property;

(k)to open, maintain and close current and savingsaccounts in any State bank;

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 20178

(l)to accept grants, gifts or donations from persons orbodies of persons, in or out side Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the Council shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of National Policies and EconomicAffairs, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the Council. Such writtenapproval shall not impose any obligation orcondition;

(m)to co-ordinate with the project approving agenciesto achieve the seventeen sustainable developmentgoals;

(n)to enter into, or perform, all such contracts as maybe necessary for the exercise of its powers or thedischarge of its functions; and

(o)to borrow such sums of money as may be necessaryfor discharging of its functions.

PART II

NATIONAL POLICY AND STRATEGY ON SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

11.(1) The National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment shall be in conformity with the SustainableDevelopment goals and associated targets.

(2) The National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment shall be in force until the end of year 2030.

(3) The Council shall forward the National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development to the President andthe Minister. The Minister shall, with the concurrence of theCabinet of Ministers cause such National Policy and Strategyon Sustainable Development including any amendmentthereto, to be published in the Gazette.

Approval for theNational Policyand Strategy onSustainableDevelopment.

9Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

(4) The Minister shall lay such National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development before the Parliamentfor approval.

(5) The National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment which is not so approved shall be deemed tobe rescinded as from the date of such disapproval.

(6) Upon the approval granted by the Parliament undersubsection (4), such National Policy and Strategy onSustainable Development shall be the National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development.

(7) It shall be the duty of every ministry, department,provincial council, provincial ministry and department andany local authority to comply with the National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development.

(8) The Minister shall co-ordinate with other projectapproving agencies for the purpose of implementing theNational Policy and Strategy on Sustainable Development.

12.(1) Every ministry, department, provincial council,provincial ministry and department and local authorityshall prepare the Sustainable Development Strategyrelevant to the scope of such ministry, department, provincialcouncil, provincial ministry and department and localauthority in accordance with the National Policy andStrategy on Sustainable Development within a period ofone year from the date of approval under subsection (6) ofsection 11 by the Parliament.

(2) Every ministry, department, provincial council,provincial ministry and department and local authority shallsubmit the progress report on the Sustainable DevelopmentStrategy prepared under subsection (1) within a period asmay be required by the Minister.

SustainableDevelopmentStrategy of theministries &c.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 201710

13.Every ministry, department, provincial council,provincial ministry and department and local authorityshall

(a)cause an environmental, and social audit to be doneon the new development projects; and

(b)ensure the environmental and social security onthe new development projects.

14.The annual report of every ministry, department,provincial council, provincial ministry and department andlocal authority shall include a statement as to the compliancewith the National Policy and Strategy on SustainableDevelopment.PART III

STAFF OF THE COUNCIL

15.(1) There shall be appointed by the Cabinet ofMinisters, a person to be the Director-General of the Council,who shall be its Chief Executive Officer.

(2) The Director-General shall be entitled to be present atall meetings of the Council and to speak at such meetings,but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings.

(3) The Council shall assess the requirement of theminimum staff required for efficient operation and appointsuch other officers and servants as are necessary for thepurpose of carrying out the objects of the Act.

(4) The Director-General shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Council, be responsible for theconduct of all affairs of the Council, including theadministrative control of the officers and servants of theCouncil.

(5) The Director-General shall be paid such remunerationas may be determined by Cabinet of Ministers.

Director-Generalof the Council.

Annual report ofthe ministry &c.

Environmentand social audit.

11Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

(6) The Cabinet of Ministers may, for reasons assignedtherefor remove from office the Director-General appointedunder subsection (1).

16.Whenever the Director-General is by reason ofillness or absence from Sri Lanka or for any other causeunable to discharge or perform any of his functions or duties,the Minister may with the concurrence of the Council,appoint any other senior officer of the Council to act in hisplace during such absence.

17.(1) At the request of the Council any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Council for such period as may be determined bythe Council or with like consent, be permanently appointedto such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to him.

(4) Where the Council employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period underany agreement, any period of service to the Council bythat person shall be regarded as service to the Governmentfor the purpose of discharging the obligations of suchagreement.

Temporaryabsence of theDirector-General.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe Council.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 201712

18.(1) At the request of the Council, any officer orservant of a public corporation may, with the consent ofsuch officer or servant and the governing body of such publiccorporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theCouncil for such period as may be determined by the Councilor with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staffon such terms and conditions, including those relating topension or provident fund rights, as may be agreed upon bythe Council and the governing body of the publiccorporation concerned.

(2) At the request of the Council, any officer or servant ofany higher educational institution may, with the consent ofthat officer or servant and the principal executive officer ofthat higher educational institution, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Council for such period as may bedetermined by the Council or with like consent bepermanently appointed to such staff, on such terms andconditions, including those relating to pension or providentfund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Council and suchprincipal executive officer.

(3) Where any person is temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Council under subsection (1) or subsection (2),as the case may be, such person shall be subject to the samedisciplinary control as any other member of the staff of theCouncil.

PART IV

GENERAL

19.(1) The financial year of the Council shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The provisions of the Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the auditing of accounts shall apply in relation tothe audit of accounts of the Council.

Financial yearand the audit ofaccounts.

Appointment ofofficers inpubliccorporations orhighereducationalinstitutions tothe staff of theCouncil.

13Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

20.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971, shall mutatis mutandis,apply to and in respect ofthe financial control and accounts of the Council.

21.(1) The Council may subject to such conditionsas may be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairmanor member of the Council or Director-General any ofits powers, functions or duties under this Act, and theChairman or such member or Director-General shallexercise, perform or discharge such power, function or dutysubject to any special or general directions issued bythe Council.

(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made undersubsection (1), the Council may exercise, perform ordischarge any such power, function or duty so delegated.

22.The Minister may, from time to time issue suchgeneral or special directions to the Council relating to theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, functionsand duties under this Act and it shall be the duty of theCouncil to comply with such directions.

23.All members of the Council, officers, servants andagents of the Council shall be deemed to be public servantswithin the meaning and for the purpose of the Penal Code(Chapter 19).

24.The Council shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter26) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

25.(1) All expenses incurred by the Council in any suitor prosecution brought by or against it before any court,shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund and only costspaid to or recovered by the Council in any such suit orprosecution, shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund .

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act,No.38 of 1971.

Delegation ofpowers,functions andduties of theCouncil.

Directions of theMinister.

Expenses to bepaid out of theConsolidatedFund.

Council deemedto be aScheduledInstitution.

All members ofthe Council etc.deemed to bepublic servants.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 201714

(2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Council,Director-General or any officer or servant of the Council, inany suit or prosecution brought by or against such personbefore any court in respect of any act which is done orpurported to be done by such person under this Act shall, ifthe court holds that such act was done in good faith, be paidout of the Consolidated Fund , unless such expenses arerecovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

26.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles andprovisions of this Act, in particular in respect of all or any ofthe following matters:-

(a)the issuance of guidelines to the Project ApprovingAgencies;

(b)the monitoring mechanisms and progress reviewprocesses on Sustainable Development Strategyimplementation;

(c)the sustainability standards and ecological footprint indicators;

(d)the mechanisms for scoring or weighting projects;

(e)the criteria for carrying out appropriate social andenvironmental audits;

(f)the categories of development projects and complexprojects; and

(g)the mechanisms for review of requests for approvalof complex projects by Project Approving Agencies.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1), shall after obtaining the approval of theCabinet of Ministers be published in the Gazette and shall

Regulations.

15Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 2017

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

come into operation on the date of such publication or onsuch later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall, within a period of three months fromthe date of its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation shallbe deemed to be so rescinded, shall be published in theGazette.

27.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectof Sustainable Development;

project approving agencies includes ministries,departments, provincial councils, provincialministries and departments and local authoritiesand all other Government and ProvincialCouncil Agencies;

sustainability means the capacity of a thing,action, activity or process to be maintainedindefinitely; and

sustainable development means development thatmeets the needs of the present withoutcompromising the ability of future generationsto meet their own needs.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sri Lanka Sustainable DevelopmentAct, No. 19 of 201716