PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRADESHIYA SABHAS (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 30 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 28, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2018

[Certified on 28th of September, 2018]

L.D.O. 3/2016

AN ACT TO AMEND THE PRADESHIYA SABHAS ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Pradeshiya Sabhas(Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 2018.

2.Section 19 of the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act, No. 15 of1987 (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of thatsection as follows:

(1)by the substitution, in paragraph (xiv) for the wordsimprovement or maintenance of village works,of the words improvement or maintenance ofvillage works or estate settlements,;

(2)by the substitution, in paragraph (xxii) for the wordsintegrated development of selected villages, ofthe words integrated development of selectedvillages, estate settlements,.

3.Section 33 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof and in the renumbered subsection (1),by the substitution for all the words fromenterprises in question, to the end of thatsubsection of the following:

enterprises in question.;

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 19 ofAct, No. 15 of1987.

Amendment ofsection 33 of theprincipalenactment.

Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 20182

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(2)by the insertion, immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1), of the following subsections:

(2) In the case of plantation regions, thePradeshiya Sabhas may, upon adoption of a specialresolution and in consultation with theadministrative authority of the relevant estate,utilise the Pradeshiya Sabha fund to facilitate theresidents of the respective plantation regions withroads, wells and other common amenities necessaryfor the welfare of such residents.

(3) (a) The roads, wells and common amenitiesconstructed, maintained or facilitated undersubsection (1) or (2) shall be vested in the PradeshiyaSabha by an appropriate instrument and shall beconstituted public roads, wells and commonamenities.

(b) The Pradeshiya Sabha shall require theowners of the estates or industrial enterprises,administrative authorities of the relevant estates orthe residents of such plantation regions, as the casemay be, to pay such contribution towards theexpenses of construction, maintenance orfacilitation of such roads, wells and commonamenities, as may be approved by the PradeshiyaSabha and all such contributions shall be deemedto be special rates imposed upon such lands andplantation regions benefited and shall be recoverableas a rate imposed under the provisions of this Act.

(4) For the purpose of this section, plantationregions means the estates coming under theDivisional Secretarys Divisions in the Districts inthe Central, Uva, Sabaragamuwa, Southern, Western,North Central and North Western Provinces, in whichthe resident labourers live and tea, rubber, coconut,cinnamon, pepper, clove or oil palm are cultivated..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

3Pradeshiya Sabhas (Amendment)Act, No. 30 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.