ee mt

[anna

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

VIJAYA KUMARATUNGA MEMORIAL
FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)
ACT, No.31 OF 1998

[Certified on 10th June , 1998}

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 12, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRE LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMRO |

Price: Rs. 9.00 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No. 31 of 1998

[Certified on 10th June, 1998]
L.D.~-O. 7/97.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A FOUNDATION
CALLED THE VUAYA KUMARATUNGA MEMORIAL FOUNDATION ; TO
SPECIFY ITS OBJECTS AND POWERS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR ALL
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

1. This Act may be cited as the Vijaya Kumaratunga
Memorial Foundation Act, No. 31 of 1998.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VUAYA KUMARATUNGA MEMORIAL
FOUNDATION

2. (1) There shall be established a Foundation, in order
to perpetuate the memory of the late Mr. Vijaya Kumaratunga,
to be called “The Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation”
(hereinafter in this Act referred to as the “Foundation”.)

(2) The Foundation shall, by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

3. (1) The Foundation shall be administered by a Board
of Management, (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the
“Board”) consisting of the following members :—

(a) the President of the Republic ;
(b) the Leader of the Opposition in Parliament ;
(c) the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court ;

(d) the Auditor-General ;

(e) Mrs. Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga during
her lifetime, and thereafter, the oldest surviving
descendant of the late Mr. Vijaya Kumaratunga :

2—-D 47387—8,550(98/03)

Short title.

Establishment o
the Vijaya
Kumaratunga
Memorial
Foundation.

Members of the
Board of

Management of
the Foundation.


2 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No 31. of 1998

Provided, however, that if Mrs. Chandrika
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga is, for any period, an ex-
officio member of the Board, the oldest surviving
descendant of the late Mr. Vijaya Kumaratunga may,
during such period, serve as a member of the Board :

Provided, further, that in the event of the oldest
surviving descendant being unwilling or unable to
serve as a member of the Board, the next oldest
surviving descendant may serve as a member of the
Board ; and -

(f) two persons appointed by Mrs. Chandrika
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga during her lifetime, and
thereafter by the Board, from among persons of
recognized competence or eminence in foreign affairs,
law, education or the arts.

(2) (a) A member appointed under paragraph (f) of
subsection (1) may resign from office by a letter in that behalf,
addressed to the Board.

(6) A member appointed under paragraph (f) of subsection
(1) may be removed from office at any time by Mrs. Chandrika
Bandaranaike Kumaratunga or the Board, as the case may
be.

(c) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of
this subsection, the term of office of a member appointed under
paragraph (f) of subsection (1) shall be three years from the
date of his appointment.

(d) Amember appointed under paragraph (f) of subsection
(1) who vacates office by effluxion of time, shall be eligible
for re-appointment.

(3) A member referred to in paragraphs (a), (5), (c) or (d)
of subsection (1), shall hold office so long as such member
holds the office by virtue of which he is a member of the
Board.


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation 3
Act, No. 31 of 1998

(4) The Chairman of the Board shall be the President. In
the absence of the President from any meeting of the Board,
the members present at such meeting shall elect from amon g
themselves a Chairman for that meeting.

(5) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five.

(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), the Board
may regulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of the
Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(7) No act or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed to
be invalid by reason of any vacancy in the membership of the
Board or any defect in the appointment of any member thereof.

(8) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board
shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members
present. In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman or
any other member presiding at any meeting of the Board shall,
in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

4. The Seal of the Foundation—

(a) shall be in the custody of such person as the Board
may from time to time determine ;

(b) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any document except with the
sanction of the Board and in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign the document
in token of their presence.

5. The objects of the Foundation shall be—

(a) to promote peace, goodwill, understanding and co-
operation among all communities and peoples of Sri
Lanka ;

(6) to promote the upliftment of youth, who are
economically and socially disadvantaged ;

The Seal
of the Foundatic

The objects
of the
Foundation.


4 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No 31. of 1998

(c) to promote the advancement of education and
knowledge, and to provide scholarships, grants or
other forms of financial assistance to scholars,
researchers and to recognized institutions or
organisations ;

(d) to promote and encourage, cultural, literary and
charitable activities ;

(e) to organise and hold, public lectures, seminars,
workshops, conferences, debates, short term
educational courses for youth, with a view to
advancing their knowledge and enabling them to
secure employment ;

(f) to promote and encourage publications on matters of
national and international interest ;

(g) to establish and maintain, educational institutions,
libraries, museums and hospitals ;

(h) to promote international peace, understanding and
co-operation ;

(i) to provide all forms of assistance for the development
of cinema in Sri Lanka ;

(j) todo all such other acts or things as may be necessary
for the carrying out of all or any of the aforesaid

objects.
Powers of the 6. (1) The Foundation shall subject to the provisions of
Foundation. this Act, have the following powers : —

(a) to acquire and hold property, movable or immovable,
which may become vested in it under this Act or by
virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentary
disposition or otherwise, and subject to any trust
attaching to such property, to sell, mortgage, lease,
exchange or otherwise dispose of the same :


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation 5
Act, No. 31 of 1998

Provided however that no immovable property of
the Foundation shall be sold without the prior written
approval of the Minister ;

(b

—

to enter into and perform, all such contracts as may
be necessary for carrying out the objects of the
Foundation ;

(ce

—

to receive or collect, gifts, grants or donations, in cash
or kind, from local or foreign persons or organisations ;

(d) to make, draw, accept, endorse, negotiate, buy, sell
and issue, bills of exchange, cheques, promissory notes
and other negotiable instruments and to open and
maintain, current, savings, and deposit accounts in any
bank or banks ;

(e) to borrow, with or without security, moneys necessary
for carrying out its objects ;

(f) to invest any moneys belonging to the Foundation
including any unapplied income, in any security which
under the provisions of section 20 of the Trusts
Ordinance (Chapter 87), or of any other written law,
it is lawful to invest trust moneys, or to invest any
such moneys in the purchase of immovable property
in Sri Lanka, or vary such investments or place in fixed
deposits in any bank, any portion of such moneys not
required for immediate expenditure ;

—

(g

to appoint such officers and servants as may be
necessary for carrying out its objects ; and

(hk) to make rules in relation to all matters connected with
the working of the Foundation. .

7. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules
made thereunder, the Board shall have the power to appoint
the officers and servants of the Foundation:

(2) Every appointment of the officers and servants of the
Foundation shall be made by the Board in accordance with
the schemes of recruitment and procedures for appointment,
prescribed by rules.

Officers and
servants of the
Foundation.


Service to the
Foundation
deemed to-be
service to the
Government for
the purpose of
certain contracts.

Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Foundation.

6 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No 31. of 1998

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any rules made
thereunder, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions
of service of the officers and servants of the Foundation
including their wages, salaries and other remuneration.

(4) The officers and servants of the Foundation shall be
subject to the disciplinary control, including power of
dismissal, of the Board. The Board may make rules in regard
to matters of discipline.

(5) The Board may establish and regulate provident funds
and schemes for the benefit of the officers and servants of the
Foundation and may make contributions to any such fund or
scheme.

8. Where the Foundation employs any persons who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Foundation by that person shall be
regarded as service 'to the Government for the purpose of

’ discharging the obligations of such contract.

9. “(1) At the request of the Board, any public officer
serving in any institution or Department coming under the
Ministry of the Minister may, with the consent of the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister given with the concurrence of
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, and of that officer, be
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Foundation for such
period as may be determined by the Board with like consent
or with like consent be permanently appointed to the staff of
the Foundation.

(2) At the request of the Board, any public officer other
than a public officer referred to in subsection (1) may, with
the consent of that officer and of the Secretary to the Ministry
of the Minister in charge of the subject of Public
Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Foundation for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Foundation.


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation 7
Act, No. 31 of 1998

(3) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Foundation, the provisions of section 14 (2) of
the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to him.

(4) Where any public officer is permanently appointed to
the staff of the Foundation, the provisions of section 14 (3) of
the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation to him.

(5) At the request of the Board, any officer or servant of
any Higher Educational Institution established under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may, with the consent of
that officer or servant, the University Grants Commission and
the principal executive officer of that Higher Educational
Institution, be temporarily appointed to the staff of the
Foundation for such period as may be determined by the Board
with like consent, or with like consent be permanently
appointed to the staff of the Foundation.

(6) In this section — the expressions “Higher Educational
Institution” and “principal executive officer” have the same
meanings as in the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978; and the
expression “University Grants Commission” means the
University Grants Commission established by the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978.

PART II
FINANCE

10. (1) The Foundation shall have its own fund.
(hereinafter called and referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Foundation in the exercise, discharge and performance
of its powers, functions and duties under this Act ; and

(b) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Foundation, by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants
from any source, whether in Sri Lanka or abroad; and

Fund of the
Foundation.


The Board to
cause proper
books of accounts
to be kept.

Minister to
exetnpt the
Foundation from
payment of certain
taxes.

8 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No 31, of 1998

(c) alli such sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by the Parliament for the use of the Foundation.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Foundation—

(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Foundation in the exercise,
discharge and performance of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act; and

(6) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of such Fund, by or under this Act.

41. (1) The Board shail cause proper books of accounts
to be kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilities
and all other transactions of the Foundation.

(2) The financial year of the Foundation shall be the
calendar year.

(3) Article 154 of the Constitution shall apply to the audit
of the accounts of the Foundation.

12, (1) The Minister-may with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, exempt the
Foundation from payment of any customs duty on any goods
imported by the Foundation if the import of such goods is
considered to be conducive to the advancement of the objects
of the Foundation.

(2) The Foundation shall be exempt from any income tax
under the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979.

(3) A donation made in money or otherwise by any person
to the Foundation shall be deemed, for the purposes of
paragraph (6) of subsection (2) of section 32 of the Inland
Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, to be a donation made in money
or otherwise to a Fund established by the Government.


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation 9
Act, No. 31 of 1998

PART III
GENERAL

13. The Minister may from time to time give such general
or special directions in writing to the Board as to the exercise
of the powers of the Foundation.

14. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, transfer to the Foundation such movable or
immovable property of the Ministry of the Minister as is
required for the purposes of the Foundation and any property
so transferred shall, with effect from the date of the Order
vest in, and become the property of, the Foundation.

(2) Any state land may, subject to such conditions as may
be determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister for the time being in charge of the subject of State
Lands, be made available for the.use of, or be alienated to,
the Foundation for any purpose of the Foundation.

(3) Where any movable property of the State is required
for the purpose of the Foundation, and Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in, the
Foundation, the possession and use of such movable property:

Provided however that no Order affecting any movable
property of the State shall be made by the Minister under the
preceding provisions of this subsection, without the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of such

property.

15. The Board shall, within a period of six months after
the closure of each financial year submit a report giving a full
account of the activities of the Foundation during that year to
the Minister who shall cause such report to be placed before
Parliament, prior to the end of the year next following the
year to which such report relates.

Powers of
Minister in
relation to the
Board.

State property
both movable and
immovable to be
made available to
the Foundation.

Board’s report to
be placed before
Parliament.


Foundation
deemed to be a
scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Members of the
Board and officers
and servants of the
Foundation
deemed to be
public servants.

Protection of
action taken under
this Act.

Rules.

10 Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation
Act, No 31. of 1998

16. The Foundation shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

17. All members, of the Board and officers and servants
of the Foundation shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

18. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie against any
member of the Board, officer or servant of the Foundation for
any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done
by him under this Act, or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Foundation in any suit or
prosecution brought by or against the Foundation before any
court, shall be paid out of the fund of the Foundation, and any
costs paid to, or recovered by, the Foundation in any such suit
or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Foundation.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done, by him under this Act, or on the direction
of the Board shall, if the court holds that such act was done in
good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Foundation, unless
such expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board
may make rules for, and in respect of, all or any of the
following matters:—

(a) the terms and conditions of service, including
remuneration, of the officers and servants of the
Foundation;


Vijaya Kumaratunga Memorial Foundation It
Act, No. 3] of 1998

(b) the schemes of recruitment and procedures for
appointment, of the officers and servants of the
Foundation;

—

(c) the annual programme and plan of work, the annual
budget, the annual report and accounts of the
Foundation and the manner in which such programme
and plan of work, budget, report and accounts are to

be prepared; and

(a) such other matters or in respect of which rules are
required or authorised by this Act to be made.

20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires the
expression ‘Minister’ means the Minister in charge of the
subject of Cultural Affairs.

Sinhala text to
prevait in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GoveRNMENT PuBLICATIONS Bureau, No, 32, TRANSWORKS House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 0! before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
