PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

1990 SUWASERIYA FOUNDATION

ACT, No. 18 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 04th of July, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00Postage : Rs. 45.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 06, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

11990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

[Certified on 04th of July, 2018]

L.D.O. 54/2017

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE 1990 SUWASERIYAFOUNDATION; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the Government having identified pre-hospitalcare ambulance services as an essential service in enhancingthe standard of living of pepole in Sri Lanka by deliveringcomprehensive, speedy, reliable and quality pre-hospital careservices, established with a grant from the Government ofIndia a pre-hospital care ambulance service free of chargeinitially in the western and southern provinces:

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to expand thepre-hospital care ambulance service to cover the whole islandand to ensure the smooth operation of such service in asustainable manner:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to establish aFoundation for effectively carrying out pre-hospital careambulance services free of charge to any person and to specifythe powers, functions and duties of such Foundation:

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the 1990 SuwaseriyaFoundation Act, No. 18 of 2018, and shall come into operationon such date as the President may appoint by Order publishedin the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE 1990 SUWASERIYA FOUNDATION

2.(1) There shall be established a Foundation whichshall be called the 1990 Suwaseriya Foundation (hereinafterreferred to as the Foundation).

Preamble.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe 1990SuwaseriyaFoundation.

21990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(2) The Foundation shall by the name assigned to it, bysubsection (1) be a body corporate, with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3.The objects of the Foundation shall be to

(a) provide pre-hospital care ambulance services andemergency response services free of charge to anyperson; and

(b) provide immediate and effective pre-hospital care freeof charge in a safe and clinical working environmentuntil a person reaches the nearest healthcare provider.

4.The powers, functions and duties of the Foundationshall be to

(a)provide ambulance services, emergency responseservices and life-saving pre-hospital care in a safeand clinical working environment to any person freeof any charge;

(b) provide such other services as may be determinedby the Foundation to any person including training,equipment supply and managing other ambulanceservices provided by non-profit organizations free ofcharge upon a management fee as may be determinedby the Foundation in consultation with the Minister;

(c) hold, take, give on lease, hire, sell, mortgage, grant,assign, exchange or otherwise dispose of the movableor immovable property belonging to the Foundation;

(d) receive grants, gifts or donation in cash or kind;

Powers,functions andduties of theFoundation.

Objects of theFoundation.

31990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(e) enter into and execute, whether directly or throughany officer or agent authorized in that behalf by theBoard, all such contracts or agreements as may benecessary, for the discharge of the functions of theFoundation;

(f)open and maintain any account with any bank as itmay think appropriate, and such account shall beoperated in accordance with prevailing applicablewritten laws;

(g) manage, control, administer and operate the Fund ofthe Foundation; and

(h) do all such other acts which may be incidental orconducive to, the attainment of the objects of thisAct or the exercise or discharge of powers and dutiesassigned to the Foundation under this Act.

5.The Foundation shall be capable in law to take andhold property movable or immovable which may becomevested in it by virtue of any purchase, grant, gift, testamentarydisposition, bequest, or otherwise and all such property shallbe held by the Foundation for the purposes of this Act.

PART II

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF AFFAIRS

6.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Foundation shall be vested in a Board of Management(hereinafter reffered to as the Board).

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering theaffairs of the Foundation, exercise, discharge and performthe powers, functions and duties conferred or assigned to orimposed on the Foundation by this Act.

Powers of theFoundation tohold property.

Administrationof theFoundationvested in Board.

41990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

7.The Board shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Financeor his representative;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister assigned the subject of Healthor his representative;

(iii)the Inspector General of Police or hisrepresentative; and

(b)four other members appointed by the Presidentwho shall possess academic or professionalqualifications and have experience in the fieldsof medical science, pharmaceuticals medicaltechnology, finance, management,administration, or law (hereinafter referred toas the appointed members).

8.(1) The President shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to act as Chairman of the Board.

(2) The Chairman may resign from his office by letteraddressed to the President and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by thePresident.

(3) The President may for reasons assigned remove theChairman from the office of Chairman.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairman shall be the period of hismembership of the Board.

(5) Where the Chairman is temporarily unable to performthe duties of his office due to ill health, other infirmity, absence

Chairman of theBoard.

Constitution ofthe Board.

51990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the President may appointany other appointed member to act as Chairman in additionto his normal duties as an appointed member.

9.A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Board, if he

(a)is or becomes a member of Parliament or of anyProvincial Council or of any local authority;

(b) is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c) is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d) is a person who having been declared insolvent orbankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka and isan undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;

(e) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or in any othercountry;

(f)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Foundation; or

(g) has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Board.

10.Every appointed member shall, unless he earliervacates office by resignation, death or removal, hold officefor a period of three years from the date of his appointmentand such member other than a member who is removed shallbe eligible for re-appointment.

11.(1) Every appointed member may at any time resignfrom his office by a letter to that effect, addressed to thePresident, and such resignation shall be effective from thedate on which it is accepted by the President in writing.

Term of office ofmembers.

Disqualificationsfrom being amember of theBoard.

Removal andresignation ofmembers.

61990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

Acts orproceedings ofthe Boarddeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy.

Quorum andmeetings of theBoard.

(2) Where any appointed member by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable todischarge the functions of his office, the President may, havingregard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of section 7, appointsome other person to act in his place.

(3) The President may for the reasons assigned, removean appointed member from office.

(4) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or isremoved from office, the President may having regard to theprovisions of paragraph (b) of section 7, appoint anotherperson in his place and the person so appointed shall holdoffice for the unexpired period of the term of office of themember whom he succeeds.

12. (1) The meetings of the Board shall be held at leastonce in every month and the quorum for a meeting of theBoard shall be four members.

(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of theBoard. In the absence of the Chairman from any meeting ofthe Board a member elected by the members present shallpreside at such meeting.

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of theBoard shall be decided by the vote of the majority ofmembers present at such meeting. In the case of an equality ofvotes the Chairman shall, in addition to his vote have a castingvote.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, theBoard may regulate the procedure in relation to the meetingsof the Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

13. The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancyamong its members and any act or proceeding of the Boardshall not be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of theexistence of any vacancy among its members or any defect inthe appointment of a member thereof.

71990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Board.

Seal of theFoundation.

14.The members of the Board shall be paidremuneration in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the President, with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance.

15. (1) The seal of the Foundation shall be in thecustody of such person as the Board may decide from time totime.

(2) The seal of the Foundation may be altered in suchmanner as may be determined by the Board.

(3) The seal of the Foundation shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or doucment except with the sanction of the Boardand in the peresence of the Chairman and one other memberof the Board who shall sign the instrument or document intoken of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairman is unable to bepresent at the time when seal of the Foundation is affixedto any instrument or document, any other member of theBoard authorized in writing by the Chairman on thatbehalf shall be competent to sign such instrument ordocument in accordance with the preceding provision ofthis subsection.

(4) The Foundation shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of theFoundation has been affixed.

PART III

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND THE STAFF OF THE FOUNDATION

16. (1) The Board shall, in consultation with the Ministerand having regard to the qualification and scheme ofrecruitment specified under subsection (2) appoint to thestaff of the Foundation a Chief Executive Officer (in this Actreferred to as the CEO).

Appointment ofthe ChiefExecutiveOfficer of theFoundation.

81990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(2) The Board shall, with the concurrence of the Ministerspecify qualification and the scheme of recruitment for thepost of CEO.

(3) The CEO shall subject to the general directions andsupervision of the Board:

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Foundation including the administration andcontrol of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Board; and

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Board.

(4) The CEO shall be entitled to be present and speak atany meeting of the Board, but shall not be entitled to vote atsuch meeting.

(5) The CEO may delegate in writing to any officer of theFoundation, any of his powers or functions and the officer towhom any such power or function is delegated shall exerciseor perform them subject to the directions of the CEO.

(6) The Board may remove the CEO from office:

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b)if he had done any act which, in the opinion of theBoard, is of a fraudulent or illegal character or isprejudicial to the interests of the Foundation; or

(c)has failed to comply with any directions issued bythe Foundation.

91990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(7) The CEO shall be paid such remuneration as may bedetermined by the Board.

17.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, theFoundation may employ or appoint such employees as maybe necessary for the efficient exercise, discharge and performof its powers, functions and duties.

(2) The Board shall have the power subject to theprovisions of the Act to

(a)exercise disciplinary control over and dismiss theofficers and employees of the Foundation;

(b)determine the terms and conditions of service ofthe officers and employees of the Foundation; and

(c)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated with the concurrence of theMinister.

(3) All employees of the Foundation shall, within onemonth of employment, declare in writing to the Foundationof their personal direct or indirect interest to the affairs andtransactions of the Foundation including those of their closerelations or, concerns in which such employee has asubstantial interest.

PART IV

FINANCE

18.(1) The Foundation shall have its own Fund(hereinafter referred to as the Fund).

Staff of theFoundation.

Fund of theFoundation.

101990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(2) All monyes lying to the credit of GVK EMRILanka (Private) Limited (in this Act referred to as the GEL),on the day immediately preceding the appointed date shallbe transferred to the Fund with effect from the appointeddate.

(3) There shall be credited to the Fund:

(a)all sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament, for the use of theFoundation;

(b)all such sums as received by the Foundationin the exercise and discharge of its powers,functions and duties under this Act;

(c)all such sums of money as may be received bythe Foundation by way of income, fees,charges, grants, gifts or donations from anysource whatsoever whether within or outsideSri Lanka.

(4) There shall be paid out of the Fund:

(a)all such sums of money as are required todefray any expenditure incurred by theFoundation in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to bepaid out of the Fund, by or under, this Act.

(5) The Board shall make rules regarding payment ofmoneys out of the Fund.

1990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 201811

19.(1) The financial year of the Foundation shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Foundation.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Consititutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of accounts of the Foundation.

(4) The Board shall submit the audited statement ofaccounts together with the auditors report to the Ministerwithin one hundred and fifty days of the end of the financialyear to which such report relates. The Minister shall placesuch statement and the report before Parliament within twomonths of the receipt thereof.

20.It shall be a defence in any criminal or civilproceeding for anything done or omitted to be done by

(a) a member of the Board;

(b) any employee or manager of the Foundation;

if he proves that he exercised due diligence and reasonablecare and acted in good faith in the course of or in connectionwith the discharge or purported discharge of his obligationunder this Act or any regulation, rule, order or directive issuedor made thereunder.

21.Any expense incurred by a member of the Board orany other officer or employee or agent of the Foundation inany suit or prosecution brought against the Foundation orsuch person before any Court, in respect of any act which isdone by the Foundation or such person under this Act or onthe direction of the Foundation, shall, if the Court holds that

Defence incriminal or civilproceedings.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts.

Expensesincurred to bepaid out of theFund.

121990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the Fund, andany cost paid or recovered by the Foundation or any suchperson referred to in this section, shall be credited to the Fund.

PART V

GENERAL

22.The Foundation shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act(Chapter 26) and the provision of the Act shall be construedaccordingly.

23.All members of the Board, the CEO, and all officersand employees of the Foundation shall be deemed to bepublic servants within the meaning and for the purposes ofthe Penal Code (Chapter 19).

24.The Minister may from time to time issue to theBoard general or special directions as to the exercise,performance and discharge of the powers, duties andfunctions of the Board.

25. (1) Subject to the provisions to of this Act, theFoundation may make rules in respect of all or any of thefollowing matters:

(a) in respect of all matters for which rules areauthorized or required to be made under this Act;

(b) the meetings of the Board and the procedure to befollowed at such meeting;

(c) in respect of the appoinment, promotion,remuneration and disciplinary control of anemployee and the grant of leave and otheremoluments to employees;

Foundationdeemed to bescheduledinstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Members,Officers andemployees of theFoundationdeemed to bepublic servants.

Directions of theMinister.

Rules.

1990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 201813

(d) in respect of the manner in which services,emergency response services and pre-hospital careshall be provided under this Act; and

(e) any other matter connected with the affairs of theFoundation.

(2) Every rule made by the Foundation shall be approvedby the Minister and be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of its publication or on suchlater date as may be specified therein.

26.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law:

(a)all movable and immovable property of the GELincluding the ambulances and medical equipmentpurchased under the grant from India maintainedby the Ministry of Health for the purpose of GELon the day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall on and after the appointed date be deemedto be movable and immovable property of theFoundation;

(b)the employees, servants and agents of the GELholding office on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date shall on and after the appointeddate be deemed to be the employees, servants andagents of the Foundation and such employees,servants and agents shall continue to hold office inthe Foundation on the same terms and conditionsenjoyed by them under the GEL immediatelypreceding the appointed date;

(c)all contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees,powers of attorney, grants of legal representationand other instruments of whatever nature of the GEL

Savings.

141990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

subsisting and having effect on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date and to which the GELis a party or which are in favour of the GEL on andafter the appointed date be deemed to be contracts,deeds, bonds, agreements, guarantees, powers ofattorney, grants of legal representation and otherinstruments entered into by or granted in favour ofthe Foundation;

(d)unless specifically revoked or substituted in themanner provided for in any other law, allapprovals or licences granted to the GEL by anyregulatory body or authority, Provincial Council,or local authority subsisting or having effect onthe day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall on and after the appointed date bedeemed to be approvals or licences granted tothe Foundation;

(e)any account maintained between the GEL and anyother person in or outside Sri Lanka including theGovernment of Sri Lanka, its departments andstatutory bodies on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date, whether it be an asset or liabilityof the GEL shall on and after the appointed date bedeemed to be an account between the Foundationand such other person with the same rights andsubject to the same obligations and incidentsincluding rights of setoff as would have beenapplicable thereto if the account between the GELand such other person had continued and so thatany instruction, order, direction, mandate orauthority given by such other person in relation tosuch account and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, unless and untilrevoked or cancelled, apply to and have effect inrelation to, the account between the Foundationand such other person;

1990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 201815

(f)all applications, actions, proceedings or appeals ofwhatever nature instituted under the provisions ofany law by or against the GEL and pending on theday immediately preceding the appointed date shallon and after the appointed date be deemed to beapplications, actions, proceedings or appealsinstituted by or against the Foundation and may becontinued accordingly;

(g)any pension fund, gratuity fund or unfundedliability in respect of a pension, gratuity or otherliability relating to post employment benefit to anyemployee of the GEL and existing on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall onand after the appointed date with the concurrenceof the Minister assigned the subject of Finance bedeemed, to be a pension fund, gratuity fund or suchliability as the case may be, of the Foundation inrespect of such employee;

(h)where the GEL on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date was a contributor to anyprovident fund approved by the Commissioner ofLabour for the benefit of its employees, then theFoundation shall on and after the appointed datebe deemed, to be the contributor to such providentfund in respect of such employees;

(i)all tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs,benefits and liabilities of the GEL subsisting onthe day immediately precending the appointed dateshall on and after the appointed date be deemed tobe tax credits, refunds, losses, concessions, reliefs,benefits and liabilities of the Foundation;

(j)all judgments, decrees or orders entered in favourof, or against the GEL by any Court in any action orproceeding shall on and after the appointed date bedeemed to be judgment, decrees or orders enteredin favour of, or against the Foundation; and

161990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

(k)all rights to intellectual property includingtrademarks, patents and software subsisting infavour of the GEL on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date shall on and after the appointeddate be deemed to be such rights in favour of theFoundation.

27.In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

close relation means spouse or dependent child;

GVK EMRI Lanka (Private) Limited means thecompany incorporated under the provisions of theCompanies Act, No. 7 of 2007 bearing companyincorporation No. PV 111132;

healthcare provider includes any institution orestablishment used or intended to be used for thereception of, and the providing of medical andnursing care and treatment for persons suffering fromany sickness, injury or infirmity, a Hospital, NursingHome, Maternity Home, Medical Laboratory, BloodBank, Dental Surgery, Dispensary and Surgery,Consultation Room, and any establishmentproviding health screening or health promotionservice, but does not include a house of observation,Mental hospital, any private dispensary or Pharmacyor drug stores exclusively used or intended to beused for dispensing and selling any drug, medicalpreparation or pharmaceutical product, or anyInstitution or premises registered for any purposeunder the provisions of Ayurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961and the Homeopathy Act, No. 7 of 1970;

Interpretation.

1990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 201817

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofthe Suwaseriya Foundation;

pre-hospital care includes first aid, emergency care ortreatment given to a person suffering from anysickness, injury or infirmity until he reaches a healthcare provider;

President means the President of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

substantial interest means

(a)in relation to a company, the holding of abeneficial interest by another company or anindividual or his relative, whether singly or takentogether, in the shares thereof, the paid up valueof which exceeds ten per centum of the paid upcapital of the company or the existence of aguarantee or indemnity for a sum not less thanten per centum of the paid up capital given byan individual or his relative or by anothercompany on behalf of such company;

(b)in relation to a firm, the beneficial interest heldtherein by an individual or his relative, whethersingly or taken together, which represents morethan ten per centum of the total capitalsubscribed by all partners of the firm or theexistence of a guarantee or indemnity for a sumnot less than ten per centum of such capital givenby an individual or the spouse, parent or childof the individual on behalf of such firm.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

181990 Suwaseriya FoundationAct, No. 18 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.