PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 28, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

WILLS (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 29 OF 2022

1Wills (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2022

Short title

Replacement ofsection 2 ofChapter 60

L. D.O. 49/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE WILLS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 60)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Wills (Amendment) Act,No. 29 of 2022.

2. Section 2 of the Wills Ordinance (Chapter 60)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor:

2. (1) It shall be lawful for any person whohas reached the age of eighteen years andresiding within or outside Sri Lanka to executea will bequeathing and disposing any movableand immovable property and all and everyestate, right, share or interest in any propertywhich belong to him at the time of death andwhich, if not so devised, bequeathed ordisposed would devolve upon his heirs of suchperson not legally incapacitated from takingthe same as he shall seem fit.

(2) Every testator shall have full power tomake such testamentary disposition as he shallfeel disposed, and in the exercise of such rightto exclude any child, parent, relative, ordescendant, or to disinherit or omit to mentionany such person, without assigning any reasonfor such exclusion, disinheritance, or omission,any law, usage, or custom now or herefore inforce in Sri Lanka to the contrarynotwithstanding..

Dispositionof propertyby a will

[Certified on 25th of October, 2022]

Wills (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 20222

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed.

4. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed.

5. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof; and

(2)by the addition, immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) thereof, the following newsubsection:

(2) Upon the demise of a testator in a joint lastwill, testamentary proceedings shall be institutedunder Chapter XXXVIII or Chapter XXXVIIIB ofthe Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101), as the casemay be, to obtain the probate or letters ofadministration with the will annexed proving thewill..

6. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words buildings erected on thesame, and, of the words, buildings erected on the same,condominium parcel or any land parcel, and.

7. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Repeal ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment

Repeal ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment tosection 7 of theprincipalenactment

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Amendment tosection 9 of theprincipalenactment

3Wills (Amendment) Act, No. 29 of 2022

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.