PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PAYMENT AND SETTLEMENT SYSTEMSACT, No. 28 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th September, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 32.25Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 23, 2005

1Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

2PL 00003815,650 (06/2005)

[Certified on 20th September, 2005]

L. D.O. 39/2004

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF PAYMENT, CLEARING AND

SETTLEMENT SYSTEMS ; FOR THE DISPOSITION OF SECURITIES ON THE

BOOKS OF THE CENTRAL BANK ; FOR THE REGULATION OF PROVIDERS OF

MONEY SERVICES ; FOR THE ELECTRONIC PRESENTMENT OF CHEQUES ;

AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Payment and SettlementSystems Act, No. 28 of 2005 and shall come into operation onsuch date as the Minister may by Order published in the Gazetteappoint (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

PART I

GENERAL PROVISIONS

2.(1) The objectives of the Act shall be

(a)to provide for the regulation, supervision andmonitoring of payment, clearing and settlementsystems ;

(b)to provide for the disposition of securities insecurities accounts maintained at the CentralBank ;

(c)to provide for the regulation, supervision andmonitoring of providers of money services ; and

(d)to facilitate the electronic presentment ofcheques.

(2) Subject to the definitions specifically provided for inthe other provisions of this Act, and unless the contextotherwise requires

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Objectives of theAct.

2Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

clearing system means a mechanism for the exchangingand processing of obligations to make payment orthe transfer of securities among banks and otherfinancial institutions for the purpose of settlingthem ;

money services means services relating to moneyincluding safekeeping, money transmission, chequeencashment and currency exchange ;

payment system means institutions and mechanismsfacilitating payment in money and the transfer ofmonetary value by means of payment transactions .It includes mechanisms for clearing and settlementof obligations to make payment ;

electronic presentment of cheques means the electronictransmission by a banker of an image and paymentinformation of the cheque, to the banker on whom itis drawn ;

settlement system means a mechanism for the dischargeof obligations to make payment and to transfersecurities cleared by banks and other financialinstitutions through the adjustments to theiraccounts.

books, records, accounts, documents, information meansbooks, records, accounts, documents or informationrecorded or stored in any media including paperand data stored by electronic, optical, magnetic orin any information system.

3.The obligations, requirements, powers and regulatoryschemes established under the provisions of this Act, shall bein addition to the obligations, requirements, powers andregulatory regimes under any other written law, and the powersconferred on the Central Bank by this Act shall be in additionto those conferred on it by the Monetary Law Act (Chapter422), the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 or any other writtenlaw for the time being in force.

Regulatoryschemes to bein addition toother schemesand powers ofthe CentralBank under thisAct.

3Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) The provisions of the Act shall be read and construedin conformity with the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) andthe Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988.

(3) For the purposes of this Act, Central Bank means theCentral Bank of Sri Lanka, established under the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422).

(4) Where under this Act any power, duty or function isrequired or authorized to be exercised, performed ordischarged by the Central Bank, the Monetary Board of theCentral Bank of Sri Lanka may in writing authorise any officerof the Central Bank, to exercise, perform or discharge suchpowers, duties or functions.

PART II

PAYMENT, CLEARING AND SETTLEMENT SYSTEMS ANDMONEY SERVICES

CHAPTER I

THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM

4.(1) The Central Bank shall be the authority responsiblefor the preparation of a plan for a national payment system.The Central Bank shall also be charged with theresponsibility of providing guidance and leadership for theestablishment and development of payment, clearing andsettlement systems in Sri Lanka.

(2) The Central Bank shall facilitate

(a)the interaction of its clearing and settlement systemsand related arrangements with other systems orarrangements connected with the exchange, clearingor settlement, of payments or securities ;

(b)the development of new methods and technologiesfor payments in domestic or foreign currencies andthe transfer of securities ; and

Responsibility ofthe Central Bankin relation topayment,clearing andsettlementsystems.

4Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(c)the co-operation among all participants in theevolution of payment systems and the provision ofpayment services.

(3) In the exercise of its powers under this Act, the CentralBank may, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother law

(a)regulate and supervise the services and facilitiesprovided by any Bank, any other financialinstitution or person, with regard to the sending,processing and receiving of payment orders andinstructions for the transfer of securities on its ownaccount and for its customers in domestic or foreigncurrencies, and assist any bank or other financialinstitution in the establishment, operation andorganization of such services and facilities ;

(b)establish, operate, organize, promote, participate orassist in the establishment, operation, organizationand promotion of, and regulate and supervise

(i)any system for the clearing and settlement ofpayments and other arrangements for themaking or exchange of payments in domesticor foreign currencies ;

(ii)any system for the clearing and settlement ofsecurities and other arrangements for theexchange of securities ; and

(iii)any system to facilitate the clearing andsettlement including other arrangements for themaking or exchange of payments or theexchange of securities in any currency againstother payments or securities in another currency.

5.(1) The Central Bank shall have the power toformulate, adopt and monitor the implementation of apayment system policy for Sri Lanka. Such policy shall bemade public.

Payment systempolicy.

5Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

Securitiesaccounts andsecuritiesaccount holders.

(2) In the exercise of its powers under subsection (1) theCentral Bank shall be guided by best international standards.The payment system policy of the Central Bank shall primarilybe designed to facilitate the overall stability of the financialsystem, promote payment system safety and efficiency andcontrol risk. Subject to this primary objective, the policyshall be designed to enhance other aspects of the publicinterest and particularly contribute to the promotion ofcompetition in the market for payment services and theprotection of payment system users.

(3) In promoting safety and efficiency of the paymentsystem the Central Bank shall co-operate with Central Banksof other countries and with other relevant domestic or foreignauthorities.

CHAPTER II

SECURITIES ACCOUNTS

6.(1) The Central Bank shall maintain securitiesaccounts for each direct participant and for each customer ofa dealer direct participant. A person may have more than onesecurities account. A securities account may be a designatedsecurities account.

(2) A securities account holder may exercise all the rightsthat comprise the security credited to his or her securitiesaccount, or designated securities account, subject to anyapplicable adverse claim :

Provided however, a customer securities account holdermay deal with his or her securities account as provided inthis section only through a dealer direct participant authorizedto act in that customers securities account :

Provided further that, no remedy against the account holderwill be prejudiced where the exercise of rights under thissection is in breach of a contract or is otherwise in violationof the rights of any other person.

6Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(3) All communications and payments relating to asecurities account shall be submitted or made to or by theCentral Bank exclusively by or to

(a)direct participants, in respect of own securitiesaccounts ; and

(b)dealer direct participants, in respect of both ownaccounts and on securities accounts of their customersin respect of which they are authorized to act.

Each disposition shall be recorded directly in the securitiesaccounts of the transferor and transferee of the security andnot pass through the own account of a dealer direct participantauthorized to act on behalf of a customer who is the transferoror transferee.

(4) The provisions contained in this section shall be readconsistently with the provisions of the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417) and the Registered Stocks andSecurities Ordinance (Chapter 420) respectively. Theprovisions contained in such Ordinances shall prevail in theevent of an inconsistency.

7.(1) A disposition of a security is carried out by meansof debit and credit posted to the transferors and transfereesrespective securities account.

(2) Upon a disposition, the transferee acquires rights tothe extent of the interest transferred in the security that thetransferor had or had the power to transfer. Where the creditfor the interest acquired was posted to the transfereessecurities accounts, and the transferee gave value withoutnotice of any adverse claim, the transferee also acquires thetransferors interest in the security, free of any adverse claims.For the purposes of this subsection,

(a)notice to the dealer direct participant authorized toact in the securities account of the transfereecustomers is not to be attributed to the customer ; and

Disposition ofsecurities.

7Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(b)notice only that the transferor acts as a trustee, anagent or in a representative capacity, or that thetransfer is out of a designated securities account, isnot notice of breach of trust or authority and doesnot amount to notice of an adverse claim.

(3) A dealer direct participant who deals with a securityunder the authority of a customer, is not liable to a personwho has an adverse claim to the security, unless the dealerdirect participant

(a)acted in collusion with any person who violated therights of the adverse claimant ; or

(b)acted, after having been served with an injunction,restraining order or other creditor process issued bya Court of competent jurisdiction enjoining thedealer direct participant from so dealing, and thedealer direct participant has had an opportunity toact on the injunction, restraining order, or othercreditor process as the case may be.

(4) In the handling of a disposition of securities and havingit recorded in securities accounts, the Central Bank shall notincur any liability whatsoever to any person, including adirect participant, customer, adverse claimant or third party,unless the Central Bank acts contrary to a binding andeffective injunction, restraining order or other creditorprocess, issued by a Court of competent jurisdiction whichhas been lawfully served on the Central Bank, or unless theCentral Bank acts in bad faith or in collusion with anywrongdoer.

8.(1) A security credited to a securities account may bemade subject to creditor process or insolvency proceedingsby or for the benefit of a creditor of the securities accountholder, only to the extent of the interest of the securitiesaccount holder and subject to any adverse claim to satisfy adebt of the securities account holder.

Creditor Process.

8Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), asecurity credited to a securities account held by a customer,may not be subject to creditor process or insolvencyproceedings by or for the benefit of a creditor of the dealerdirect participant authorized to act in the customers securitiesaccount, to satisfy any debt of that dealer direct participant.

(3) The interest of a debtor in a security may be reachedonly by creditor process duly served on the Central Bank.The Central Bank shall comply with any creditor processduly served on it.

9. A security held in a customers, securities account,sold to the customer by the dealer direct participant authorizedto act in the securities account of the customer, is subject to alien in favour of the dealer direct participant to secure thepayment of its price.

10.(1) In this Chapter unless the context otherwiserequires

adverse claim means a claim to a property interest in asecurity credited to the securities account of a personother than that of the claimant, including the rightof redemption of a debt, under a mortgage, pledgeor charge, or any other transaction intended to securethe payment of a debt and a beneficial interest undera trust ;

creditor process means any process of execution issuedby a Court of competent jurisdiction on behalf of acreditor or other claimant with respect to a securityor securities account, such as a levy, attachment,garnishment, notice of lien, sequestration or similarprocess, including any order restraining or blockinga disposition, but shall not include any action takenby a securities account holder of a designatedsecurities account to extinguish an adverse claim toa security credited to the designated securitiesaccount ;

Dealers lien.

Interpretationfor Chapter 1I.

9Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

customer means in relation to a dealer direct participant,a transferor or transferee in a disposition, who is asecurities account holder, other than a directparticipant ;

dealer direct participant and direct participant shallhave the same meanings as are assigned to them inthe Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417)and the Registered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) ;

designated securities account means a securities accountin which title to securities held in it is stated to besubject to adverse claims ;

disposition means any absolute transfer of title to asecurity between a transferor and transferee ;

own securities account means a securities account inthe name of a direct participant as the securitiesaccount holder ;

securities account means an account maintained at theCentral Bank to which securities may be creditedand debited and in which dispositions of securitiesare recorded ;

securities account holder means a person in whose namethe Central Bank maintains a securities account ;

security means any

(a)treasury bills issued in a scripless form inaccordance with the provisions of the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) ;

(b)treasury bonds issued in a scripless form inaccordance with the provisions of theRegistered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420) ;

10Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(c)securities issued in a scripless form by theCentral Bank in accordance with theprovisions of the Monetary Law Act (Chapter422) ;

transferee means the party to a disposition to whom asecurity is transferred and whose securities accountis credited as the result of the disposition ; and

transferor means the party to a disposition who transfersa security and whose securities account is debitedas a result of the disposition.

CHAPTER III

MONEY SERVICES AND PAYMENT SYSTEMS.

11.The Central Bank shall in terms of the provisions ofthis Chapter, regulate, supervise and monitor all serviceproviders or any specified category of service providers inaccordance with such regulations which the Minister maymake for the purposes of this Chapter.

12.(1) The Central Bank may, where it is of the opinionthat any person

(a)is engaged in, or is about to engage in any unsafe,unsound or unfair practice in providing any moneyservice or in the operation of a payment system ; or

(b)has contravened or failed to comply with, or is likelyto contravene or fail to comply with the provisionsof this Act, or any rule, regulation, instruction,directive or order given under this Act or any otherwritten law which in the opinion of the the CentralBank relates to money services or payment systemsor any category thereof,

issue a directive to that person requiring such person, withinsuch time as the Central Bank considers necessary,-

Central Bank tosupervise &c,.serviceproviders.

Directive formoney servicesand paymentsystems.

11Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(i)to cease and refrain from engaging in the act,omission or course of conduct ; and

(ii)to perform such acts as in the opinion of the CentralBank are necessary to rectify the situation.

(2) Every directive issued under subsection (1) shall beserved on the service provider to whom it is directed andshall be in operation from the date of service thereof.

(3) Every directive issued under this section shall bebinding on the person to whom it is directed.

13.(1) The Central Bank may, if it considers it in thepublic interest to do so, designate a payment system to bemade subject to additional regulation and supervision asprovided in sections 14 and 15.

(2) The following factors shall be taken into considerationwhen determining whether it is in the public interest todesignate a payment system

(i)the level of financial safety provided by thepayment system to the particpant and users ;

(ii)the efficiency and competitiveness of paymentsystems in Sri Lanka ; and

(iii)the best interests of payment system participants andtheir customers or the financial system in Sri Lanka.

(3) Prior to the designation of a payment system, theCentral Bank shall consult the manager and participants ofthe payment system and may consult interested parties, withrespect to the effects of such designation.

(4) The Central Bank shall notify the manager and theparticipants of the designation of the payment system insuch manner as the Central Bank considers appropriate. Thedesignation shall be effective from the date specified in suchnotification. Every such notification shall be published inthe Gazette.

DesignatedPaymentSystems.

12Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

14.(1) The Manager of the designated payment systemor if there is no Manager, the participants of the system, shallforward to the Central Bank a copy of every payment systemrule governing the designated payment system, within suchperiods as are hereinafter set out-

(i)where a payment system rule was made before thedesignation of the payment system, within thirtydays of the date of such designation ; and

(ii)where a payment system rule was made after thedesignation of the payment system, within ten daysof the date of the making of such rule.

(2) A payment system rule, other than a payment systemrule referred to in paragraph (i) of subsection (1) shall notcome into operation before the thirtieth day after a copy of itis sent to the Central Bank under subsection (1) :

Provided that the Central Bank may declare the paymentsystem rule to be in force at any time before the expiry of theaforementioned periods.

(3) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that anextension of the period specified in subsection (2) is requiredto permit adequate review of a payment system rule, theCentral Bank may within ten days after its receipt, after givingwritten notice to the sender of the payment system rule, extendthat period upto thirty days.

(4) The Central Bank may disallow the whole or a part ofa payment system rule governing a designated paymentsystem, before or anytime after it comes into force or is inforce. A payment system rule when so disallowed becomesineffective from the moment the decision to disallow it iscommunicated to the Manager or the participant of adesignated payment system, or at any time thereafter, asinstructed by the Central Bank in its decision to disallow thepayment system rule.

Rules ofdesignatedpaymentsystems.

13Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(5) (a) Where a payment system rule in force is disallowedin whole or in part by the Central Bank under subsection (4),giving rise to the need to amend or replace the payment systemrule in order to facilitate the continued smooth operation ofthe designated payment system, the decision of the CentralBank to disallow it must be included in a directive, issuedpursuant to section 15. The Central Bank shall notify theManager of the designated payment system, of the requiredamendment or replacement to the payment system rule ;

(b) Every such directive shall provide a text for atemporary payment system rule which shall be applicableuntil an amendment or replacement to the payment systemrule is adopted by the payment system. The temporarypayment system rule becomes effective immediately uponthe payment system rule which is to be amended or replaced,becoming ineffective.

(6) The Central Bank may exempt a designated paymentsystem from the application of the requirements of subsection(2).

15.(1) The Central Bank may issue a written directiveto the Manager or to a participant of a designated paymentsystem in respect of any one or more of the following:

(a)the conditions to be met by any person in order tohave access or to become a participant of thedesingnated payment system ;

(b)the operation of the designated payment system,including the clearing and settlement procedures tobe followed ;

(c)the interaction of the designated payment systemwith other payment systems ; or

(d)the relationship of the designated payment systemwith its participants.

Directives fordesignatedpaymentsystems.

14Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) The Central Bank shall prior to issuing any writtendirective under subsection (1), consult the person to whom itis directed, and may also consult any interested persons withrespect to the content and the effect of the directive.

(3) The Central Bank may by a written directive specifythat a Manager of the designated payment system or aparticipant in such a system shall, within such time as theCentral Bank considers necessary-

(i)cease or refrain from engaging in an act or course ofconduct ;

(ii)perform such acts as in the opinion of the CentralBank are necessary in the public interest ; or

(iii)make, amend or repeal a payment system rule.

(4) As soon as is practicable after implementing a directiveand completing any actions required to be taken inconnection with it, the person to whom it is given shall notifythe Central Bank that the directive has been implementedand the action completed.

(5) Every directive issued under this section shall becommunicated to the person to whom it is directed and shallcome into operation from the date of its issue. A directive isbinding on the person to whom it is directed.

16.(1) The Central Bank may audit, inspect, and requirethe production of accounts, records, books, and documents,inspect offices of, and request information from, serviceproviders and any person the Central Bank may determine tobe a service provider or a payment system designated underthis Chapter.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person, or an employee,agent or manager of a person to whom a request is madeunder subsection (1) to comply with it.

Informationobligations andcompliance.

15Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(3) The Central Bank may, where it considers it necessaryrequire that audits and inspections under subsection (1)shall be carried out on its behalf, in whole or in part byqualified auditors who shall submit their report to the CentralBank.

(4) In this section qualified auditor shall have the samemeaning as in paragraph (8) of Article 154 of the Constitution.

(5) Every participant shall be required to perform all theduties imposed under this Chapter on a Manager of a paymentsystem.

(6) If a Manager of a payments system fails to perform theduties imposed on it under this Chapter, the participants jointlyand severally shall comply with those duties and shall beliable for contravention in the same manner and to the sameextent as the Manager.

(7) For the purposes of obtaining evidence on oath inrelation to any audit or inspection in terms of this section,the Central Bank shall have the power to administer oaths oraffirmations in terms of the provisions of the Oaths Ordinance(Chapter 17)

17.(1) The Minister may for the purpose of giving effectto the provisions of this Chapter, make regulations withrespect to any matter required by this Chapter to be prescribedor in respect of which regulations are required or authorizedto be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister maymake regulations

(a)to provide for the conditions, requirements andstandards under which money services may beprovided and payment systems may be operated anddesignated ;

Regulations forChapter III.

16Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(b)to require the registration or licensing of serviceproviders and the procedure to be followed for suchregistration or licensing, to specify the conditionsand requirements for such registration or licensingand provide for the circumstances under which suchlicense or registration may be revoked by the CentralBank ;

(c)to provide for the levy of a licence fee and theamount of such charges and fees for the registrationof service providers ;

(d)specifying the procedures required for the regulation,supervision and monitoring of service providers ;

(e)specifying the conditions, requirements, guidelines,procedures, measures and standards provided in thisChapter, on any matter, including licensing,registration or designation, fees and charges to belevied in respect of the different categories of serviceproviders as classified and determined byregulations ;

(f)specifying the manner in which the conditions,requirements, guidelines, procedures, measures andstandards provided in this Chapter will apply inrespect of any person who carries out or is authorizedto carry out any part of a money service or theoperation of a payment system on behalf of a serviceprovider ;

(g)specifying the conditions and requirements underwhich persons including those providing moneytransmission services may participate in a paymentsystem or maintain accounts and deposits in theCentral Bank ;

(h)specifying the prudential requirements relating toservice providers including accounting andreporting requirements ;

17Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(i)specifying the requirements, standards andguidelines on corporate matters of service providersincluding matters with regard to their form ofincorporation or organization, administration,management, governance, control, capital adequacyand other capital requirements, ownership structure,quality of shareholders and administrators andbusiness and investment powers ;

(j)specifying the requirements, standards andguidelines for service providers designed to facilitatetheir inspection by the Central Bank, includingrequirements, standards and guidelines regardingthe collection, maintenance of record and reportingto the Bank of information on matters as specifiedincluding information about their customers orparticpants and in relation to transactions or anycategory of them, in such format and detail as maybe specified ; and

(k)specifying the measures necessary for the protectionof customers and participants or any category ofthem, and particularly, to specify disclosurerequirements and contract terms of money serviceproviders and their customers and of paymentsystems and their participants.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

18Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

18.Unless the context othrwise requires, for the purposesof this Chapter

cheque encashment means receiving compensation fortaking payment instruments or stored value, inexchange for money, payment instruments, or storedvalue delivered to the person delivering the paymentinstrument or stored value ;

currency exchange means receipt of revenues from theexchange of money issued, established, authorizedor adopted by one government, or monetary valuedenominated in its monetary unit, for money issued,established, authorized or adopted by anothergovernment or for monetary value denominated inits monetary unit;

designated payment system means a payment systemdesignated under the provisions of this Chapter ;

manager includes a member of the Board of Directors ofservice providers and means any person that in theopinion of the Central Bank is in a position tosupervise and be responsible for the management ofthe business and affairs of a service provider. Noticeunder this Chapter to be given to a Manager is to begiven to the Manager as advised to the Central Bankby the service provider, unless the Central Bankspecifically designates another person to be aManager ;

monetary value means a medium of exchange, whetheror not redeemable in money, including in the formof stored value, payment instrument or credit toaccount ;

money means a monetary unit or a medium of exchangethat is issued, established, authorized, or adoptedby Sri Lanka or a foreign government. The termincludes a monetary unit or a medium of exchangeissued, established, authorized or adopted by aninter-governmental organization or by agreementbetween two or more governments ;

Interpretationfor Chapter III.

19Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

money services means any services relating to money,including safekeeping, money transmission, chequeencashment, or currency exchange, and other similarservices ;

money transmission means selling or issuing monetaryvalue or receiving money or monetary value inconnection with the transmission of money ormonetary value, either from the transmitter or for abeneficiary and includes the provision of a facilityfor the withdrawal of money for the transfer ofmonetary, value between accounts or for thepayment of monetary value to third parties. The termincludes the taking part in any transaction orarrangement involved in carrying out thetransmission from the transmitter to the beneficiaryeven if neither the transmitter nor the beneficiary isa party or direct participant to such transaction orarrangement. Money transmission could be fromplace to place, within, to or from Sri Lanka or anyother country ;

participant means a party to an arrangement in respectof a payment system. It may include a bank, aprovider of money transmission services or any otherperson but does not include a user or customer of aparticipant who instructs or receives payment overthe payment system ;

payment card means any card, plate, coupon book, orother device, including a code or any other meansof access to an account, stored value or credit thatmay be used from time to time to obtain money orto make payment and includes a debit, charge, creditand stored-value card ;

payment instrument means cheque, draft, money order,travellers cheque, payment card or other instrumentfor the transmission or payment of money ormonetary value, whether or not negotiable. The termdoes not include a credit card voucher, letter of credit,or instrument that is redeemable by the issuer onlyin goods or services ;

20Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

payment system means a system or arrangement for thecommunication, processing, exchange, clearance orsettlement of payment orders and other messageseffecting, ordering, enabling, or facilitating themaking of payments money transmission, moneywithdrawals, or transfers of monetary value ;

payment system rule means a rule, by whatever namecalled, other than one issued by the Central Bank,that governs a payment system, including itsoperation, clearing and settlement, and includes anamendment to or a repeal of a payment system rule ;

person means an individual, corporation, business trustestate, trust, partnership, limited liability company,association, joint venture, government, governmentalsubdivision, agency or instrumentality, publiccorporation, or any other public, private orcommercial body, unit or organization, with orwithout separate legal personality ;

record means information that is inscribed on a tangiblemedium or that is stored in an electronic or othermedium and is retrievable in perceivable form ; and

service provider means any person who provides moneyservices or operates a payment system ;

stored value means monetary value that is evidencedby an electronic record.

CHAPTER IV

CLEARING AND SETTLEMENT SYSTEMS.

19.(1) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that aclearing and settlement system may be operated in such amanner as to pose a risk to the financial system of Sri Lanka,the Central Bank may designate the clearing and settlementsystem as a systemically important clearing and settlementsystem which is subject to the provisions of this Chapter.

Designatedclearing andsettlementsystems.

21Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) The Central Bank shall in writting, notify a designatedclearing and settlement systems clearing house of thedesignation and shall cause a copy of the designation tobe published in the Gazette. The designation shall beeffective as from the date of the making of the relevantnotification.

(3) Designation of a clearing and settlement system assystemically important under Chapter IV of this Part of theAct may be in addition to the designation of the same systemas a payment system which is subject to additional regulation,supervision and monitoring under Chapter III of this Part ofthis Act :

Provided however, where there is a designation made interms of both Chapters of this Part of the Act as aforesaid, itshall be incumbent on the persons who are subject to theprovisions of Chapters III and IV of this Act, to comply withthe requirements under both Chapters respectively

20.(1) The Central Bank may issue rules, instructionsand directions and may enter into any agreement with aclearing house or a participant of a designated clearing andsettlement system, or both, in respect of the followingmatters :

(a)netting arrangements;

(b)risk sharing and risk control mechanisms ;

(c)certainty of settlement and finality of payment;

(d)the nature of financial arrangements amongparticipants ;

(e)the operational systems and financial soundness ofthe clearing house; and

(f)such other matters that in the view of the MonetaryBoard pertain to a risk to the financial system.

Agreements withclearing house orparticipant.

22Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) The Minister may make regulations in respect of all orany of the matters specified in paragraphs (a) to (f) ofsubsection (1) and in the event of a conflict between anyrule, instruction, direction or agreement and any regulationsmade in that behalf under this Act, such regulation shallprevail.

21.(1) Where the Central Bank is of the opinion that

(i)a clearing house for a designated clearing andsettlement system engages in or is about to engagein any act, omission or course of conduct ;

(ii)a participant is engaging in or is about to engage inany act, omission, or course of conduct with respectto its participation in the designated clearing andsettlement system; or

(iii)the designated clearing and settlement systemoperates or is about to be operated in a manner,

that results in or is likely to result in a risk to the financialsystem being inadequately controlled, the Central Bank mayissue a directive in writing to the clearing house, requiring itwithin such time as the Central Bank considers necessary

(i)to cease or refrain from engaging in the act, omissionor course of conduct or require the participants tocease or refrain from engaging in the act, omissionor course of conduct ;

(ii)to perform such acts or have the participant performsuch acts as in the opinion of the Central Bank arenecessary to remedy the situation.

(2) Where the Central Bank is of opinion in terms ofsubsection (1) that the risk to the financial system is beinginadequately controlled, and it appears to the Central Bankthat

(i)the clearing house fails to comply with a directivethat has been issued to it in terms of subsection (1) ;

Directives.

23Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(ii)the designated clearing and settlement system doesnot have a clearing house located in Sri Lanka ; or

(iii)in the opinion of the Central Bank

(a)the risk to the financial system is beinginadequately controlled due to an act,omission, or course of conduct of a participantwith respect to its participation in thedesignated clearing and settlement system; and

(b)the act, omission, or course of conduct doesnot comply with any agreement, rule,procedure, guideline or other documentationrelating to the designated clearing andsettlement system,

the Central Bank may issue a directive in writing toany participant requiring it, within such time as theCentral Bank considers necessary,

(i)to cease or refrain from engaging in certainacts, omissions, or courses of conduct withrespect to its participation in the designatedclearing and settlement system; and

(ii)to perform such acts with respect to itsparticipation as the Central Bank considersnecessary to remedy the situation.

(3) A directive under this section may be made in respectof any matter that is directly related to participation in thedesignated clearing and settlement system. A directive underthis section may not be made in respect of

(i)the capital adequacy of a participant;

(ii)the management of its investments;

(iii)its corporate governance;

24Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(iv)its relations with customers who are not themselvesparticipants in the designated clearing andsettlement system; or

(v)its ownership structure.

(4) A directive may require that the payment obligationsthat arises from clearing within the designated clearing andsettlement system shall be settled through adjustments to theaccount or accounts of one or more of the participants at theCentral Bank.

(5) A directive, if it so provides, shall be applicable to adesignated clearing and settlement system that is establishedby or under any written law.

(6) A directive issued under this section shall becommunicated to the person to whom it is directed and shallbe published in the Gazette. A directive so issued shall comeinto operation on the date it is issued.

(7) A directive shall be binding on the person to whom itis issued.

22.(1) The Central Bank may perform all or any of thefollowing functions in relation to a designated clearing andsettlement system and its clearing house :

(a)the provision of a secured or unsecured guaranteeof settlement by participants;

(b)the making of liquidity loans to the clearing houseand the central counter-party; and

(c)acting as the central counter-party to theparticipants.

Powers ofCentral Bank.

25Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) If the Central Bank is of the opinion that participationin a designated clearing and settlement system by a participantposes or is likely to pose, an unacceptable risk, to the financialsystem or an unacceptable risk to the Central Bank inguaranteeing settlement of that participants obligations, theCentral Bank may

(a)suspend participation of that participant; or

(b)prohibit it from being a participant; or

(c)may require it to comply with such conditions, withrespect to its participation, as the Central Bankconsiders necessary.

23.(1) In section 23 and 24 insolvency proceedingsshall mean any collective measures provided for in anyapplicable law, either to wind-up the participant or to reorganize it, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, or to suspendits business, including insolvency proceedings institutedunder the Insolvency Ordinance (Chapter 81), where suchmeasure involves the suspending of, or the imposing oflimitations on, payment orders and payments.

(2) Payment orders which have been entered into adesignated clearing and settlement system and their nettingshall be legally enforceable and binding on third parties,notwithstanding the commencement of insolvencyproceedings against a participant, provided that paymentorders were entered into the system prior to the commencementof such insolvency proceedings.

(3) Where payment orders have been entered into adesignated clearing and settlement system after thecommencement of insolvency proceedings and are carriedout on the day of the commencement of such proceedings,such payment orders shall be legally enforceable and bindingon third parties only if, after the time of settlement, the centralcounter-party or the clearing house can furnish evidence tothe satisfaction of the Court of the fact that they were notaware nor could they have been aware of the commencementof such proceedings.

Insolvencyproceedings.

26Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(4) The specific moment of entry of a payment order intoa designated clearing and settlement system shall bedetermined by the rules of that system.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the time ofcommencement of insolvency proceedings is the momenteither when the judgement or order of insolvency, winding-up or suspension is pronounced or the effective resolutionfor the voluntary winding-up is passed.

(6) A participant against whom a judgement or order ispronounced, or who has passed an effective resolution forvoluntary winding-up, as provided for in subsection (5), shalladvise the Central Bank and where applicable the centralcounter-party or the clearing house as the case may be, of thejudgement, order or resolution on the day it is pronounced orpassed.

(7) Insolvency proceedings shall not have any retroactiveeffect on the rights and obligations of a participant, arisingfrom the clearing and settlement of payment obligation on adesignated clearing and settlement system prior to the timeof commencement of such proceedings.

24.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law

(i)the settlement rules of a designated clearing andsettlement system are valid and binding on theclearing house, the participants, the central counter-party and the Central Bank. Any action may validlybe initiated or any payment may be made inaccordance with such settlement rules;

(ii)the obligation of a participant, a clearing house or acentral counter-party to make payments to aparticipant, and the right of a participant, a clearinghouse or a central counter-party to receive paymentsfrom a participant, clearing house or central counter-party, shall be netted, and a net settlement or close-

Settlement rules.

27Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

out amount shall be determined in accordance withthe settlement rules of the designated clearing andsettlement system, if it is so provided in the rules;and

(iii)where the settlement rules of a designated clearingand settlement system provide that the settlementof a payment obligation through an entry to, or apayment out of, an account of a participant, aclearing house or a central counter-party at theCentral Bank is final and irrevocable, the entry orpayment shall not be reversed, repaid or set aside.

(2) An entry to or a payment out of the account of aparticipant, a clearing house or a central counter-party at theCentral Bank to settle a payment obligation in a designatedclearing and settlement system shall not be the subject ofany provision or order that operates as a stay of that activity.

(3) The rights and remedies of a participant, a clearinghouse, a central counter-party or the Central Bank, withrespect to collateral granted to it as security for a payment orthe performance of an obligation incurred in a designatedclearing and settlement system, may not be affected byinsolvency proceedings. In particular, such rights andremedies may not be the subject of any stay provision ororder affecting the ability of creditors to exercise rights andremedies with respect to the collateral.

(4) Notwithstanding the fact that all or part of theadministration or operation of a designated clearing andsettlement system is conducted outside Sri Lanka or that itssettlement rules are governed by the laws of a foreignjurisdiction, if a Court in Sri Lanka determines that the rightsand obligations of any person arising out of or in connectionwith the operation of the designated clearing and settlementsystem are governed in whole or in part by the law of SriLanka, the provisions of this section shall be applicablethereto, to such extent as the law of Sri Lanka is applicable indetermining those rights and obligations.

28Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(5) In this section settlement rules means the effectiverules, however made, which provide the basis upon whichpayment obligations are calculated, netted or settled andincludes rules for instituting action where a participant failsor is likely to become unable to meet its obligations to theclearing house, a central counter-party or the other participantsrespectively.

25.(1) Every clearing house shall, with respect to itsdesignated clearing and settlement system, provide theCentral Bank with reasonable notice in advance of anysignificant change intended to be made by the clearing housein relation to the designated clearing and settlement system.Without limiting the generality of the forgoing the clearinghouse shall give notice with respect to any changeaffecting

(i)any document including its Memorandum ofAssociation, and the relevant resolutions,agreements, rules and procedures relating to theformation, establishment, constitution, governance,administration and operation of the clearing house;

(ii)the operation of the designated clearing andsettlement system; or

(iii)the agreements, rules, procedures, guidelines orother documentation governing the designatedclearing and settlement system.

(2) Every clearing house shall, forthwith after it makesany other change in relation to the designated clearing andsettlement system, provide the Central Bank with writtennotice of the change, and, without limiting the generality ofthe foregoing, the notice shall provide information in respectof any change affecting

(i)the composition of the Board of Directors whetherby resignation or otherwise; or

(ii)the appointed auditor of the clearing house.

Notice andinformation.

29Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(3) Every clearing house shall, with respect to itsdesignated clearing and settlement system, provide theCentral Bank with such information, at such times and insuch form, as the Central Bank may in writing require.

26.(1) The Central Bank may, for the purpose of carryingout its functions under this Chapter, conduct audit andinspections of a clearing house.

(2) The Central Bank may, where it considers it necessary,require that audits and inspections under subsection (1) shallbe carried out on its behalf, in whole or in part, by qualifiedauditors, who shall submit their report to the Central Bank.

(3) The Central Bank and every qualified auditor appointedto carry out audit and inspections, shall be entitled to haveaccess to the information, books and records of the clearinghouse. The clearing house shall assist the Central Bank orthe qualified auditor in carrying out its duties under thissection.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditorshall have the same meaning as in Article 154 of theConstitution.

(5) For the purpose of obtaining evidence under oath inrelation to an audit or inspection under this section, theCentral Bank shall have the power to administer oaths oraffirmations in terms of the provisions of the Oaths Ordinance(Chapter 17).

27.The Central Bank shall have the power to do all orany of the following things in relation to a clearing andsettlement system and its clearing house :

(i)be a participant, participate and act as a centralcounter-party, including in a loss-sharingmechanism;

Audits andinspections bythe Central Bank.

Powers of theCentral Bank inrelation to theclearing system.

30Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(ii)act as a custodian of financial assets, or settlementagent, or both; and

(iii)accept and pay interest on deposits from clearinghouse, a participant or the central counter-party.

28.Where a financial institution or the Central Bank isa party to a netting agreement, then notwithstanding anythingin any other law relating to bankruptcy or insolvency, or anyorder of court made pursuant to an administration or re-organization arrangement, or receivership involvinginsolvency, the financial institution or the Central Bank mayenforce the agreement, terminate the contract giving rise toany obligation governed by it, and determine a nettermination value or net settlement amount in accordancewith the provisions of the agreement, in which case, the partyentitled to the net termination value or settlement amount isto be a creditor of the party owing the net termination valueor net settlement amount for that value or amount as the casemay be.

29.(1) The Central Bank may, where it has reasonablegrounds to believe that a system or arrangement exists for theclearing and settlement of payment obligations, request aperson who is a party to the system or arrangement to providethe Central Bank with further information, records anddocuments relating to the system or arrangement as theCentral Bank may require, in order to make a determinationon the existence of the clearing and settlement system.

(2) Every person who is required under subsection (1) toprovide information, records and documents shall complywith such request.

(3) Every clearing house shall, in respect of its clearingand settlement system provide the Central Bank with suchinformation and documents as the Central Bank may fromtime to time require to enable the Central Bank to determinewhether the clearing and settlement system poses a risk to

Termination ofnettingagreements.

Central Bankmay requireproof of theexistence of aclearing system.

31Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

the financial system. Without limiting the generality of theforegoing, the clearing house shall, in respect of the clearingand settlement system, provide the Central Bank with :

(a)the names of its participants;

(b)copies of all documents relating to the formation,establishment, constitution, governance andoperation of the clearing house, includingMemorandum of Association, by-laws, and relevantresolutions, agreements, rules and procedures;

(c)the names of directors, committee members andauditors of the clearing house;

(d)copies of its reports, statements, or other documentsthat are required to be filed with any governmentagency or regulatory body; and

(e)copies of its financial statements.

(4) No participant is required to provide information to theCentral Bank under this Chapter concerning anotherparticipant of a clearing and settlement system if thatinformation has not been made available to all the participants.

30.(1) Where a clearing house fails to comply with theobligations imposed on it under this Chapter with respect toits clearing and settlement system or otherwise contravenesthe provisions of this Chapter, the participants shall jointlyand severally comply with those obligations and they shallbe liable for the contravention of those obligations in thesame manner and to the same extent, as the clearing house.

(2) Where a clearing and settlement system does not havea clearing house located in Sri Lanka, the participants locatedin Sri Lanka

(i)shall comply with the obligations imposed underthis Chapter on a clearing house with respect to aclearing and settlement system; and

Responsibility ofparticipants.

32Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(ii)shall have all the rights conferred by this Chapteron a clearing house with respect to a clearing andsettlement system,

in the same manner and to the same extent as if the participantslocated in Sri Lanka were the clearing house on which thoseobligations and rights are imposed or conferred respectively.Any action taken by the Central Bank in respect of theclearing house may only be taken in respect of the participantslocated in Sri Lanka.

For the purposes of this subsection, a participant incorporatedor formed under a law applicable in Sri Lanka is said to belocated in Sri Lanka.

31.A foreign bank that is or wishes to be a participant ina designated clearing and settlement system shall from timeto time, provide the Central Bank with any informationregarding the application of foreign laws to the foreign bankas the Central Bank considers necessary.

32.In this Chapter, unless the context otherwiserequires

central counter-party means a corporation, association,partnership, agency or other service provider orperson involved in a clearing and settlement systemwith whom all payment rights and obligations ofthe participants are netted to produce a singleamount owing as between each participant and thecentral counter-party;

clearing and settlement system means a system orarrangement for the clearing or settlement ofpayment obligations in the financial system, in anycurrency, and in which there is a minimum of threeparticipants, at least one of whom is a financialinstitution; and includes a system or arrangementfor the clearing or settlement in the official currency

Participation offoreign Banks.

Interpretationfor Chapter V.

33Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

of Sri Lanka, or for securities transactions, foreignexchange transactions or other transactions orfinancial contracts where the system or arrangementalso clears or settles payment obligations arisingfrom those transactions and contracts;

clearing house means a corporation, association,partnership, agency or organization or other entityor person that provides clearing or settlementservices for a clearing and settlement system, butdoes not include the Central Bank;

designated clearing and settlement system means aclearing and settlement system designated underthis Chapter;

financial institution means

(i)a licensed commercial bank within themeaning of the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 ;

(ii)such other person, entity or person, or entitywithin a class of persons, or service providersengaged primarily in the business of providingfinancial services and which are designatedby the Central Bank to be a financialinstitution for the purposes of this Chapter ;

financial system means the financial system of Sri Lanka ;

net termination value means the net amount obtainedafter setting off or otherwise netting the obligationsbetween the parties to a netting agreement inaccordance with the provisions of such agreement ;

netting agreement means an agreement between two ormore financial institutions or between the CentralBank and one or more financial institutions thatprovides for the netting or set off of present or futureobligations to make payments against the presentor future rights to receive payments ;

34Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

participant means a member of a clearing house or aparty to an arrangement that establishes a clearingand settlement system ;

risk to the financial system of Sri Lanka means the riskthat the inability of a participant to meet itsobligations in a clearing and settlement system asthey become due, or a disruption to a clearing andsettlement system, that could through the transmittalof financial problems into the system, cause

(i)other participants in the clearing andsettlement system to be unable to meet theirobligations as they become due ;

(ii)financial institutions in other parts of thefinancial system of Sri Lanka to be unable tomeet their obligations as they become due, or

(iii)the clearing and settlement systems clearinghouse or the clearing house of another clearingand settlement system within the financialsystem of Sri Lanka to be unable to meet itsobligations as they become due.

PART III

ELECTRONIC CHEQUE PRESENTMENT.

33.(1) A banker may instead of presenting the chequeitself for payment, present a cheque by electronic means forpayment to the banker on whom it is drawn, by transmittingan image thereof along with the stipulated electronic paymentinformation of the cheque.

(2) In making the electronic presentment of a cheque undersubsection (1) a banker may act in whole or in part through athird party service provider, including another banker or theclearing house, and such service provider is deemed to be anagent for the banker.

Electronicpresentment ofcheques forpayment.

35Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1),and subject to the provisions of subsection (5), the banker onwhom a cheque is drawn and to whom electronic presentmentwas made, may request the presenting banker to present thecheque itself for payment thereof.

(4) Where either an electronic presentment undersubsection (1) was precluded or wholly failed, or a validrequest under subsection (3) is made, the presentment undersubsection (1) shall be disregarded, and the provisions ofthis section shall not apply to the subsequent presentment ofthe cheque itself. For the subsequent presentment of thecheque to be considered as having been timely made, thepresenting banker is deemed to have received the cheque inorder to present it for payment at the time he either receivedthe request under subsection (3), or should have known thatthe electronic presentment was precluded or had whollyfailed, as the case may be.

(5) A request under subsection (3) can be validly made,only

(a)before payment is made ; and

(b)where the electronic presentment has failed or didnot enable the banker on whom the cheque is drawnto conclude with adequate certainty that inhonouring the cheque he is complying with theinstructions of his customer who is stated as beingthe drawer of the cheque ; and

(c)where the banker on whom the cheque is drawn hasreasonable grounds to believe that there is a greaterlikelihood that he could arrive at such conclusionon the basis of the presentment of the cheque itself,

and such request shall be accompanied by an explanation asto the grounds thereto and shall reach the presenting bankerbefore the close of business on the day following the day theelectronic presentment of the cheque is made, in accordancewith the provisions of subsection (1).

36Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(6) A valid request under subsection (3) for the presentmentof the cheque itself shall not be deemed to be a dishonouringof the cheque by non-payment.

(7) For the avoidance of doubt it is stated that, any paymentmade upon presentment in accordance with subsection (1)by the transmission of an image and electronic paymentinformation of the cheque, shall not be considered to havebeen made outside the ordinary course of business, in badfaith or negligently.

(8) For the purposes of this section

(a)the image of a cheque shall comprise the front viewand the back view of the cheque ; and

(b)the electronic payment information of a cheque shallcomprise

(i)the serial number of the cheque ;

(ii)the code which identifies the banker on whomthe cheque is drawn ;

(iii)the account number of the drawer of thecheque ;

(iv)the amount for which the cheque is drawn, asentered by the drawer of the cheque ; and

(v)any other matter as may from time to time beprescribed by regulation.

34.(1) Where a cheque presented for payment inaccordance with subsection (1) of section 33 is dishonouredby non-payment, the banker to whom the holder deliveredthe cheque for collection shall either return the cheque to theholder or shall issue to the holder an image return documentconforming to all requirements set out by the Central bank.

Procedure onnon-payment ofan electronicallypresentedcheque.

37Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) An image return document shall be deemed to be thecheque to which it relates.

35.(1) A banker who makes an electronic presentmentin terms of subsection (1) of section 33, warrants that theimage is a true, complete and accurate image of the originalcheque and that the stipulated electronic payment informationis the same as is on the cheque. He shall also indemnify thedrawer against any loss incurred due to the presentment beingmade by electronic means instead of by presentment of thecheque itself.

(2) A banker who issues an image return document in termsof subsection (1) of section 34 warrants that it is a true copyof the cheque to which it relates and shall also indemnify thedrawer against any loss in the event of the cheque itself beingpaid or sued on.

(3) The warranties and indemnities guaranteed under thissection are in favour of the banker on whom the cheque isdrawn, its customer who is stated to be the drawer of thecheque, the holder who delivered the cheque to thepresentment bank for collection and any prior indorser.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), theperson stated to be the drawer of the cheque, may recover onthe breach of warranty or indemnity and claim under thissection directly from the banker on whom the cheque is drawn,who may then be subrogated to the claim of that personagainst the banker making the warranty, or be liable on theindemnity obligation.

36.(1) The provisions of subsection (4) of section 52 ofthe Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter 82) shall notapply

(a)to the presentment of a cheque for payment undersubsection (1) of section 33;

(b)to a cheque which is paid following presentmentunder subsection (1) of section 33.

Warranties andindemnity.

Certainprovisions of theBills ofExchangeOrdinance not toapply.

38Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) Where a cheque is presented for payment by a bankerunder subsection (1) of section 33, the provisions of section45 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter 82) shall notbe construed as being applicable and requiring thepresentment to be made at the proper place or at a reasonablehour on a business day.

(3) The provisions of this Part of this Act shall, in so far asit is possible be read and construed as one with the Bills ofExchange Ordinance (Chapter 82).

37.(1) Agreements between bankers, including those inthe form of clearing houe rules or similar arrangements, maygovern the implementation of all matters set out in this Partand shall be binding between the parties thereto :

Provided that any rules, directions or instructions issuedby the Central Bank for such purposes under this Act, shallsupersede any such agreement or arrangements as the casemay be.

(2) Rules, directions and instructions relating to theimplementation of this Part are deemed to bind and benefitparties liable on and entitled to enforce a cheque governedby them.

PART IV

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

38.Where any person fails to comply with any provisionof this Act or any regulation made thereunder or a directive,direction, instruction, or rule issued by the Central Bank inconnection with any matter as relates to the foregoingprovisions, or a lawful request for information, records ordocuments directed under this Act, the Central Bank maymake an application to a Court of competent jurisdiction foran order directing compliance with the provisions of thisAct, regulation, rule, instruction, directive or request, as thecase may be.

Regulations tosupersedeagreements andarrangements.

Action to betaken in case offailure tocomply with theprovisions ofthe Act, &c,.

39Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

39.(1) Every person who contravenes or fails to complywith any provision of this Act or any regulations madethereunder, or directive, direction, instruction or rule issuedby the Central Bank in connection with any matter underthose provisions, or a lawful request for information, recordsor documents, directed under this Act, shall be guilty of anoffence, and

(i)in the case of a natural person, be liable onconviction after summary trial to a fine not exceedingone million rupees or to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not less than one year and notmore than three years, or to both such fine andimprisonment; or

(ii)in the case of any other entity, be liable on convictionafter summary trial to a fine not exceeding sevenhundred and fifty thousand rupees.

(2) Where a corporation or any other legal entity otherthan an individual, or an unincorporated body or organizationcontravenes any provisions of this Act or any regulation madethereunder or any directives, directions, instructions or rulesissued by the Central Bank, then, every director and membershall be liable for the contravention in the same manner andto the same extent as the corporation, legal entity or theunincorporated body or organization as the case may be.

40.(1) Any information or documents obtained underthis Act by the Central Bank shall be treated as confidential.

(2) Nothing in subsection (1) precludes the Central Bankfrom disclosing any information or documents to anygovernment agency or regulatory body charged with theregulation of financial institutions, provided that the CentralBank is satisfied that the information or documents shall betreated as confidential by the agency, body or person towhom they are disclosed.

(3) Nothing contained in the provisions of subsection (1)shall preclude the Central Bank from disclosing anyinformation if required to do so by a Court of law.

Offences.

Confidentialityof informationand documents&c,.

40Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

41.No action shall lie against the Monetary Board of theCentral Bank, or its members, any officer, employee, directorof the the Central Bank, or any person acting under the directionof the Central Bank, for anything lawfully done or omitted tobe done in good faith in the exercise or performance of anypowers, duties or functions under this Act, which are intendedor authorized to be exercised or performed.

42.Subject to the provisions of the Constitution, in theevent of an application for judicial review being made of anydesignation under this Act or of any directive issuedthereunder, no stay of the designation or directive shall begranted, pending the final disposition of the application.

43.(1) The Minister may, for the purpose of giving effectto the principles and provisions of this Act, make regulationswith respect to any matter required by this Act to be prescribedor in respect of which regulations are required or authorizedto be made by the Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred on the Minister by subsection (1), theMinister may, make regulations in respect of all or any of thefollowing matters :-

(a)the protection of customers and the integrity anddevelopment of payment systems in Sri Lanka ;

(b)the imposition of restrictions, limitations or prohibitionon the use of payment orders from designated categoriesof accounts and persons and the specification of theconditions governing such use ;

(c)the imposition of restrictions on the liability ofindividuals by specifying restrictions and pre-conditions for such liability, in connection withpayment transactions to or from accounts that areused primarily for personal or household and non-business purposes ;

Immunity.

No designationor directive to bestayed in case ofapplication forjudicial reviewbeing made.

Regulations.

41Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(d)the determination of standards by which theperformance of duties under the Act may bemeasured ;

(e)the determination and modification of the timeperiods or deadlines for any action or omissionspecified by this Act, for all or specified categoriesof parties, participants, securities transfers orpayment transactions ;

(f)the specification of the procedures and provisionof time limits, and the rights and remedies in case ofcomputer breakdowns or other emergency affectingthe financial system in whole or in part ; and

(g)the determination of the fees to be imposed andcharges to be levied in order to recover the fulloperating costs of the administration of this Act.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon asconvenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any such regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

44.The Central Bank shall issue general directions,instructions and guidelines, for the proper and efficientimplementation, administration and enforcement of theprovisions of this Act, and in particular in respect of thefollowing :-

Central Bank toissueinstructions &c,.

42Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(a)the execution of its payment policy, control ofpayment system risk, and the achievement ofsettlement certainty ;

(b)the format of instructions for the disposition ofsecurities governed by this Act ;

(c)the standards for the communication of instructionsfor the disposition of securities governed by thisAct ;

(d)statistical information required for the proper andefficient conduct of monetary policy to be providedto the Central Bank by the banks and other financialinstitutions ;

(e)monitoring of all payment, clearing and settlementsystems operated by the Central Bank or throughaccounts maintained on the books of the CentralBank ;

(f)the regulation, licensing and supervision of moneyservice providers, payment systems and designatedsystems ;

(g)electronic presentment of cheques and all relatedmatters, including the requirements for validpresentment, collection, retention of cheques, thedishonour of cheque so presented andresponsibilities of bankers ; and

(h)any other matter specified in this Act.

45.(1) Every regulation made by the Minister, and everyrule, instruction, directive, direction and guideline as thecase may be, issued under this Act shall be binding on allparties involved in the handling of a payment order or thedisposition of a security, and shall supercede any inconsistentagreement, including inter-bank clearing rules and otheragreements, to the extent of the inconsistency.

Regulation &c,to be binding.

43Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

(2) In the implementation of the provisions of this Act theMinister and the Central Bank shall in so far as it is possible,follow international standards.

46.Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherlaw, relating to payment and settlement system the provisionsof this Act shall prevail in case of inconsistency between theprovisions of this Act and any other written law, other than asspecifically provided for in this Act.

47.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

This Act toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

44Payment and Settlement SystemsAct, No. 28 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.