PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 16.25 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 13, 2005

[Certified on 13th May, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA DISASTER MANAGEMENTACT, No. 13 OF 2005

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 20051

2 PL 000093 5650 (02/2005)

[Certified on13th May, 2005]

L. D. O. 56/90.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL

FOR DISASTER MANAGEMENT; THE DISASTER MANAGEMENTCENTRE; THE APPOINTMENT OF TECHNICAL ADVISORY COMMITTEES;

THE PREPARATION OF DISASTER MANAGEMENT PLANS; THE

DECLARATION OF A STATE OF DISASTER; THE AWARD OF COMPENSATION

AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS human life, property and the environment ofSri Lanka is being threatened and endangered due to certaindisasters taking place within the territory of Sri Lanka:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to protect humanlife and property of the people and the environment of SriLanka from the consequence of these disasters, by effectivelydealing with them from a national perspective by thepreparation of a national policy and a plan and by theappointment of centrally co-ordinated committees andinstitutions to give effect to such policy and plan :

NOW THEREFORE be it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka DisasterManagement Act, No. 13 of 2005, and shall come intooperation on such date (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date) as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2. (1) There shall be established a body called theNational Council for Disaster Management (hereinafter inthis Act referred to as the Council).

(2) The Council shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

Preamble.

Short title.

Establishment ofthe NationalCouncil forDisasterManagement.

2Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

3. (1) The Council shall consist of

(a)the President, who shall be the Chairman of theCouncil (hereinafter referred to as the Chairman);

(b)the Prime Minister, who shall be the Vice-Chairmanof the Council;

(c)the Leader of the Opposition;

(d)the Ministers in charge of the following subjects :

(i)Social Welfare ;(ii)Rehabilitation and Reconstruction ;(iii)Environment ;(iv)Home Affairs ;(v)Health ;(vi)Science and Technology ;(vii)Housing ;(viii)Coast Conservation ;(ix)Irrigation ;(x)Power ;(xi)Defence ;(xii)Police ;(xiii)Finance ;(xiv)Land;(xv)Fisheries and Aquatic Resources ;(xvi)Foreign Affairs;(xvii)Water Supply;(xviii)Highways;(xix)Urban Development(xx)Education;

(e)the Chief Ministers of every Provincial Councilestablished by Article 154A of the Constitution :

Provided that in case where the Provincial Council is notelected for any Province, the Governor appointed for suchProvince; and

Constitution ofthe Council.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 20053

(f)the persons referred to in subsection (3).

(2) The Council shall appoint a person to be the Secretaryto the Council, and the person so appointed shall also be amember of the Council.

(3) The Speaker shall in consultation with the Leader ofthe Opposition, nominate five persons from amongst theopposition Members of Parliament to be members of theCouncil.

(4) The Council may from time to time co-opt as a memberof the Council, any Minister in charge of any other subjectfor such period as it may consider necessary.

(5) Where a subject referred to in subsection (1) is a subjectwhich the President has assigned to himself or is a subjectwhich has been assigned to the Prime Minister, a personnominated by the President or the Prime Minister, as the casemay be, shall represent the President or the Prime Minister atthe Council.

4.The functions of the Council shall be

(a)to formulate a national policy and program on themanagement of disasters which shall providefor

(i)the protection of life of the community andenvironment from disaster and themaintenance and development of disasteraffected areas ;

(ii)the effective use of resources for preparedness,prevention, response, relief, reconstructionand rehabilitation ;

(iii)the enhancement of public awareness andtraining to help people to protect themselvesfrom disasters ;

Functions of theCouncil.

4Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

(iv)capacity building, among persons living inareas vulnerable to disaster, in relation to riskmanagement and the application of disastermanagement and mitigation practices ; and

(v)pre-disaster planning, preparedness andmitigation while sustaining and furtherimproving post-disaster relief, recovery andrehabilitation capabilities ;

(b)to prepare and formulate the National DisasterManagement Plan and the National EmergencyOperation Plan based on the national policy andprogram formulated under paragraph (a), in order toensure

(i)preparedness for disasters and any otheremergencies ;

(ii)risk prevention ; and

(iii)the prevention and mitigation of disaster ;

(c)to monitor the implementation of the NationalDisaster Management Plan and the NationalEmergency Operation Plan and to submit such plansto the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval ;

(d)to facilitate emergency response, recovery, relief,rehabilitation and reconstruction in the event of anydisaster ;

(e)where it considers appropriate, to take all stepsnecessary to counter any disaster or impendingdisaster, in accordance with the National DisasterManagement Plan or in accordance with suchmeasures as may be decided by the Council for suchpurposes ;

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 20055

(f)to direct, co-ordinate and monitor the activities ofthe Disaster Management Centre established undersection 8 and the appropriate organizationsdesignated under section 21, and to ensure thatavailable resources are used effectively by suchCentre and organizations in the discharge of theirfunctions ;

(g)to ensure that adequate publicity is given to theNational Disaster Management Plan and the NationalEmergency Operation Plan;

(h)to specify guidelines to be complied with by everyMinistry, Government Department and publiccorporation in the preparation of DisasterManagement Plans under section 10;

(i)to facilitate and support local and community selfreliance in the event of any potential or actualdisaster ;

(j)to promote public awareness campaigns relating todisaster management and funding of research anddevelopment on disaster management ;

(k)to facilitate liaison with organizations and personspursuing hazard, vulnerability and risk reductionstudies and implementing action programmes andcommissioning such studies and action programmes;

(l)to assign functions and responsibilities to theDisaster Management Centre established undersection 8;

(m)to initiate programmes relating to prevention andmitigation of disaster and the provision of relief,rehabilitation and reconstruction;

6Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

(n)to appraise the Cabinet of Ministers on all relevantmatters connected with any potential and actualdisasters;

(o)to recommend the allocation of funds for disastermanagement from the relevant authorities and bodiesand the Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Fund,established by the Reconstruction andRehabilitation Fund Act, No. 58 of 1993.

5. (1) The Council shall meet as often as may benecessary, but not less than once in every three months.

(2) The Chairman shall, if present preside at all meetingsof the Council. In the absence of the Chairman from anysuch meeting of the Council, the Vice-Chairman shall presideat such meeting.

(3) Where both the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman arenot present at any meeting of the Council a member electedby the members present at the meeting from amongthemselves, shall preside at such meeting.

6.(1) The quorum for any meeting of the Council shallbe one-third of its total membership.

(2) The Council may regulate the procedure in regard tothe meetings of the Council and the transaction of businessat such meetings.

7.(1) The seal of the Council shall be determined anddevised by the Council and may be altered in such manner asmay be determined by the Council.

(2) The seal of the Council shall be in the custody of theSecretary to the Council.

(3) The Seal of the Council shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of theCouncil and in the presence of two members of the Councilwho shall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence.

Meeting of theCouncil.

Quorum atmeetings.

Seal of theCouncil.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 20057

(4) The Council shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the Councilhas been affixed.

8.(1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct, a Disaster Management Centre headed by a Director-General and such number of other directors as may bedetermined by the Council. The Director-General and otherDirectors shall be appointed by the Council in consultationwith the Minister.

(2) The functions of the Centre established undersubsection (1) shall be as assigned by the Council, and shallinclude the following :

(a)assisting the Council in the preparation of theNational Disaster Management Plan and the NationalEmergency Operation Plan and proposals forupgrading the same when it becomes necessary ;

(b)taking responsibility for the implementation of theNational Disaster Management Plan and the NationalEmergency Operation Plan, and upon thedeclaration of a state of disaster to direct and co-ordinate the implementation of the NationalEmergency Operation plan;

(c)ensuring that the various Disaster Management Plansprepared by Ministries, Government Departmentsor public corporations conforms to the NationalDisaster Management Plan ;

(d)based on Disaster Management Plans prepared byvarious Ministries, Government Departments andpublic corporations under section 10, preparing andimplementing programmes and plans for disasterpreparedness, mitigation, prevention, relief,rehabilitation and reconstruction activities andcoordinating of organizatins which implement such

Establishment ofDisasterManagementCentre.

8Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

programmes and plans and obtain financialassistance form the Treasury for such activities andrelease the same to the relevant regions and monitorand evaluate these activities ;

(e)issuing instructions and guidelines to appropriateorganizations, non-governmental organizations,district secretaries and divisional secretaries onactivities relating to disaster management andinitiating and implementing work programmes inco-ordination with such organizations andsecretaries ;

(f)promoting research and development programmesin relation to disaster management and setting upand maintaining a data base on disaster management;and

(g)submitting reports to the Council from time to timeand whenever required by the Council in regard toits activities.

9.(1) In the discharge of their functions under this Act,the Council and the Disaster Management Centre shall beassisted by such number of Techincal Advisory Committeesas shall be deemed necessary by the Council, consisting ofprofessionals and experts having expertise in relation to therespective functions and responsibilities, as the case may be,of the Council.

(2)The members of the Technical Advisory Committeesshall be appointed by the Council.

(3) The Chairmen of the Technical Advisory Committeesconstituted under subsection (1), shall be appointed by theCouncil.

10.(1) It shall be the duty of every Ministry,Government Department and public corporation to prepare aDisaster Management Plan with respect to such Ministry,

DisasterManagementPlan.

Appointment ofTechnicalAdvisoryCommittees.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 20059

Government Department, or public corporation, to counterany disaster or impending disaster, based on the NationalDisaster Management Plan and in accordance with suchguidelines as may be specified by the Council.

(2) The Disaster Management Centre shall, if requestedby a Ministry, Government Department or public corporationreferred to in subsection (1), extend all necessary assistanceto such Ministry, Department or Corporation, as the case maybe, in the preparation of its Disaster Management Plan.

(3) Every Ministry, Government Department and publiccorporation shall on or before such date as shall be determinedby the Council by Order published in the Gazette, submit tothe Centre, a detailed Disaster Management Plan relating tothe disaster counter-measures proposed to be taken by suchMinistry, Government Department, public corporation, as thecase may be, to counter any disaster or impending disaster.

(4) The Centre shall submit every Disaster ManagementPlan received by such Centre under subsection (3), to theCouncil for its approval.

11.(1) If at any time, the extent or severity of a disasteror impending disaster is or is likely to be so great, that anycounter-measures that may become necessary to counter suchdisaster or impending disaster are beyond the resources ormeans normally available to the administration, the Presidentmay, on Presidents own motion or on the advice of theCouncil, by Proclamation declare that a state of disasterexists, either in respect of any area or areas specified in suchproclamation, or of the whole country.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), aProclamation made under subsection (1) shall come intoforce on the date on which such Proclamation is made andshall, remain in force for a period of two months from the dateof the making of the Proclamation, and may thereafter, ifnecessary, be extended for further periods not exceeding twomonths at a time.

Declaration ofstate of disaster.

10Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

(3) A Proclamation made under subsection (1), shall beplaced before Parliament at its first sitting immediately afterthe date of declaration of the Proclamation, to be approvedby a resolution of Parliament.

(4) If Parliament does not approve any Proclamationplaced before it, such Proclamation shall, immedately uponsuch disapproval, cease to be valid and have no force in law,but without prejudice to anything lawfully done thereunder.

12.(1) Upon the declaration of a state of disaster by thePresident, the President shall direct any one or moreappropriate organizations designated by the Council undersection 21, to take immediate action to

(a)direct, co-ordinate and use all available resourcesas may be necessary within the area or areas inrespect of which a Proclamation has been madeunder subsection (1) of section 11, to counter theefffect of the disaster or the impending disaster orto mitigate the effect of such disaster or impendingdisaster ;

(b)direct, co-ordinate and use additional resources, ifand when they become available, in accordance withsuch arrangements as may be made in respect of itsallocation ; and

(c)take all necessary measures provided for in theNational Disaster Management Plan or the NationalEmergency Operation Plan as the case may be, andin accordance with such directions that may beissued to such appropriate organzation by thePresident.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), uponthe declaration of a state of disaster by President under section11, it shall be the duty of every Ministry, GovernmentDepartment or public corporation, to take all measures necessaryfor the immediate implementation of their DisasterManagement Plans prepared under section 10 within theirrespective Ministry, Department, or Corporation, as the casemay be.

Procedure to befollowed uponthe declarationof a state ofdisaster.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 200511

13.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions contained insection 12, where a state of disaster is declared under section11, the Council may, wherever it considers necessary orappropriate, obtain the assistance of any Non-Governmentalorganization, being a non-governmental organization whoseactivities are not detrimental to national independence andsovereignty, to assist any appropriate organization in thedischarge of its duties under section 12.

(2) Where any assistance is obtained under subsection (1)from a non-governmental organization, such organizationshall act in accordance with instructions issued by theappropriate organization it is assisting and shall, for servicerendered be paid by the Council out of the Fund of theCouncil, such amount as shall be determined by the Council.

14.(1) It shall be the duty of an appropriate organizationdirected to take any action under section 12, to

(a)enter any place where such appropriate organizationbelieves on reasonable grounds that it is necessaryto enter for the purpose of saving human life or forthe prevention of injury to human life or for therescuing of persons whose lives are endangered orto facilitate the carrying out of any other urgentmeasures with respect to relief from suffering anddistress of affected persons ;

(b)evacuate people, property and animals from affectedor vulnerable areas ;

(c)close traffic on any road, street (whether public orprivate) right of way or in any public place, for theimplementation of disaster counter-measures untilthe police and the armed forces arrive ;

(d)remove any obstruction impeding theimplementation of disaster counter-measures withthe assistance of the police or the armed forces ; and

Council to obtainassistance ofnon-governmentalorganizations.

Duties of anappropriateorganization.

12Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

(e)do any other act as such appropriate organizationmay consider reasonably necessary for the purposeof implementing effectively any disaster counter-measures or to perform any act preliminary orincidental to any action directed to be taken bysuch appropriate organization under section 12.

(2) The duties entrusted under subsection (1) on anyappropriate organization shall be performed by suchorganization only within the area or areas in which suchorganization has been authorized to operate by theCouncil, in performing its duties under subsection (1) ofsection 12.

15. (1) Any person who suffers loss or damage to his orits property by reason of any act, omission or default in takingany action by an appropriate organization under subsection(1) of section 12 or in the perfomance of its duties undersection 14 or by a non-governmental organization assistingan appropriate organization under section 13, or a policeofficer or member of the armed forces, shall be entitled tocompensation in respect of any loss or damage caused, of anamount determined by the Divisional Secretary of theDivision within which such property is situated.

(2) The Divisional Secretary may, for the purpose ofdetermining the compensation payable under subsection (1),obtain the assistance of a government assessor.

(3) The amount of compensation paid for any loss ordamage caused to property shall, in case of dispute, bedetermined by the District Court within the jurisdiction ofwhich the property is situated, on application made in thatbehalf by the person who suffered such loss or damage, byway of summary procedure.

Award ofcompensation.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 200513

16.The initial capital of the Council shall be ten millionrupees. The amount of this initial capital shall be paid out ofthe Consolidated Fund and shall be credited to the Fundestablished under section 17.

17.(1) The Council shall have its own Fund. There shallbe credited to the Fund of the Council

(a)money received from the Consolidated Fund, asinitial capital of the Council ;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil in the discharge of its functions ; and

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theCouncil by way of loans, donations, gifts or grantsfrom any lawful source whatsoever, whether in oroutside Sri Lanka.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Council allsuch sums of money as may be required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Council in the discharge of itsfunctions under this Act.

18. (1) The financial year of the Council shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Council shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Council.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts ofthe Council.

19.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to the financial controland accounts of the Council.

Capital of theCouncil.

Fund of theCouncil.

Accounts andaudit.

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971.

14Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

20.(1) The Council may appoint such number ofofficers, servants and agents as it considers necessary for thedischarge of its functions and for the administration andimplementation of this Act.

(2) The officers, servants and agents appointed undersubsection (1) shall be remunerated in such manner and atsuch rates and shall be subject to such conditions of serviceas may be determined by the Council.

(3) At the request of the Council, any officer in the publicservice may with the consent of that officer and the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofPublic Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the Council for such period as may be determined by theCouncil with like consent or be permanently appointed tosuch staff with like consent.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, applyto and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Council, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to him.

(6) Where the Council employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which he hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period, anyperiod of service with the Council by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

21.(1) Whenever the Council considers it appropriate,the Council may designate any Ministry, GovernmentDepartment, Public Corporation or the Disaster Management

Staff of theCouncil.

Designation ofappropriateorganizations.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 200515

Centre as an appropriate organization (in this Act referred toas an appropriate organization) which will be required tocarry out and implement the National Disaster ManagementPlan or the National Emergency Operation Plan, as the casemay be, and generally assist the Council in the discharge ofits functions.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), anappropriate organization shall also be required to performany duties that it may be called upon to do under subsection(1) of section 12, and in general to assist the Council in thedischarge of its functions under this Act.

(3) The Council shall determine and specify the functionswhich an appropriate organization should discharge in orderto carry out and implement the respective plans referred toin subsection (1), and where necessary issue guidelines forthe same.

(4) Where an appropriate organization is designated bythe Council under subsection (1), the Council shall by Orderpublished in the Gazette, specify the area or areas in whicheach such appropriate organizations, shall carry out itsimplementation activities.

(5) An appropriate organization may exercise its powersunder this Act, only through such of its officers as areespecially assigned in writing in that behalf by suchorganization.

22. (1) The Chairman may, subject to such conditions asmay be specified in writing delegate all or any of his powers,duties or functions under this Act to any member or officer ofthe Council.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation undersubsection (1) , the Chairman may exercise, perform ordischarge any power, duty or function so delegated.

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions bythe Chairman.

16Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

(3) A member or an officer of the Council to whom anypower, duty or function has been delegated under subsection(1) shall, in the exercise, performance or discharge of suchpower, duty or function, comply with such directions orconditions as the Chairman may from time to timecommunicate in writing to such member or officer, as thecase may be.

(4)A member or an officer of the Council to whom anypower, duty or function has been delegated under subsection(1) shall have the power to do, all acts and things that areincidental to the power, duty or function that is so delegated.

23.No suit shall lie against a member of the Council orany appropriate organization authorized by the Presidentunder section 12, or police officer or a member of the armedforces for any action which is done in good faith, in theperformance of any duty imposed upon such member,appropriate organization, police officer or a member of thearmed forces as the case may, under this Act.

24.Every person who assaults, obstructs, threatens,intimidates, abuses or insults any person exercising any poweror discharging any duty conferred on or imposed on suchperson by this Act, shall be guilty of an offence under this Actand shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to imprisonment of either descriptionfor a term not exceeding two years or to a fine not exceedingtwenty five thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonmentand fine.

25.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

disaster means the actual or imminent ocurrence of anatural or man-made event, which endangers orthreatens to endanger the safety or health of anyperson or group of persons in Sri Lanka, or whichdestroys or damages or threatens to destroy ordamage any property, and includes

(a)a landslide;(b)a cyclone;

Offences andpenalties.

Protection foraction taken ingood faith.

Interpretation.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 200517

(c)a flood;(d)a drought,(e)an industrial hazard;(f)a tsunami (seismic wave);(g)an earthquake;(h)an air hazard;(i)a maritime hazard;(j)a fire;(k)an epidemic;(l)an explosion;(m)air raids ;(n)civil or internal strife ;(o)chemical accident;(p)radiological emergency;(q)oil spills including inland and marine oilspills;(r)nuclear disaster;(s)urban and forest fire;(t)coastal erosion; and(u)tornados, lightening strikes and severethunder storms;

disaster counter-measures means measures that arenecessary or desirable to avert, minimize or counterthe effect of an impending disaster or consequentto a disaster, to mitigate the effect of such disasteron members of the public or any property belongingto an individual or the State, and includes theconduct of, or participation in, training for suchpurposes ;

public corporation means any corporation, board orother body which was or is established by or underany written law with funds or capital wholly orpartly provided by the Government from theConsolidated Fund by way of grant, loan orotherwise; and

18Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 2005

resources includes manpower or animals, vehicles,boats, plant, appratus, implements, earthmovingeqipment or other equipment of any kind, finance,storage facilities, movable and immovable propertyconsidred essential for the life of the community.

26.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Sri Lanka Disaster ManagementAct, No. 13 of 200519

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.