National Institute of Technical Education             5
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

(@) to enter into and excute, whether directly or through
any officer or agent authorized in that behalf by the
Institute, all such contracts or agreements as may be
necessary for the discharge of the functions of the
Institute ;

(& to make rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Institute and in relation to its officers
and servants including their appointment, promotions,
remuneration, disciplinary control, dismissal and the
grant of leave to them ;

( to enter into agreements with employers, for the
provision of in-house training to trainees, selected for
training by the Institute ; and

(m) todoall such other acts or things which, in the opinion
of the Institute, are necessary for, or are conducive or
incidental to, the attainment of its objects.

PART II
CONSTITUTION OF THE BOARD

5. (1) The administration, management and control of
affairs of the Institute shall be vested in a Board of Governors
(hereinafter referred to as the “Board”.

(2) The Board shall, for the purpose of administering the
affairs of the Institute, exercise, discharge and perform, the
powers, functions and duties conferred on or assigned to or
imposed on, the Institute by this Act.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Board to prep:
accordance with regulations made on that behalf, a three year
plan of work, the annual plan and programme and the annual

budget and shall submit such plans and programmes for _

approval by the Minister.


6          National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

Constitution of the 6. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—
board
(@) ex-officio members, namely—

(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of Minister in charge
of the subject of Vocational Training who shall
be the Chairman of the Board ;

Gi) the Chairman of the Commission, who shall be
the Vice Chairman of the Board ; and

(b) five other members appointed by the Minister, of
‘whom three shall be from among entrepreneurs in the
private sector. (hereinafter referred to as “appointed
members”).

(2) Every appointed member shall, unless he earlier
vacates office by resignation, death or removal, hold office
for a period of three years from the date of his,appointment
and shall be eligible for reappointment,

(3) An appointed member may at any time resign his office
by leter to that effect addressed to the Minister, and such
resignation shall not take effect until it is accepted by the
Minister.

(4) Where any appointed member is by reason of illness,
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less than
three months, temporarily unable to perform the duties of his
office, the Minister may appoint some other person to act in
his place.                                       ,

(5) The Minister may, if he thinks it expedient to do so,
Temove any appointed member from office without assigning
any reasons therefor, and thereupon that member shall be
deemed to have vacated his office.

(6) (@) Where an appointed member dies or resigns or is
removed from office, the Minister shall, having regard to the
provisions of section (6) (1) (b),-appoint another person to be
a member in place of the member who dies, resigns or is
removed from office.


National Institute of Technical Education            7
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

(6) A member appointed under paragraph (a) of this
subsection, shall unless he earlier resigns or vacates his office
by death or removal, shall hold office for the unexpired part
Of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(7) Every‘ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office
as long as he holds the post by virtue which he is a member
of the Board,

7. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or continuing as a member of the Board if he—

(@) is or becomes a Member of Parliament, a Member
of a Provincial Council or a Member of a local
authority ;

(6) is under any law in force in’Sri Lanka or any other
‘country, found or declared to be of unsound mind ;

(c) is a person who, having been declared an insolvent,
or a bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka or
in any other country, remains an undischarged
insolvent or bankrupt ;

(@) is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonment
imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or in any other
country,

8. The Director-General of the Institute appointed under
Section 16 shall be the Secretary of the Board. He shall be
entitled to be present at any meeting of the Board but shall
ot be entitled to vote thereat.

9. The Board may act notwithstanding any vacancy
among its members and no act or proceeding of the Board
shall be or deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence
of any vacancy among its-members or any defect in the
appointment of any member thereof.

appointed or
continuing as a
member of the
Board.

‘Secretary of the
Board.

Acts or
lings of

the Board

deemed not

to be invalid by

reason of any


Remuneration of
‘members of the
Board,

Meetings of the
Board. -

Directions of the
Minister.

8          National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

10. All or any of the members of the Board shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such rates as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

11, (1) The Chairman or in his absence the Vice
Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the Board, In the
absence of both the Chairman and the Vice Chairman from
any meeting of the Board, a member elected by the members
present shall preside at such mecting.                     :

(2) The Meetings of the Board shall be held at least once
in every month and the quorum for any meeting of the Board
shall be three,                            .

(3) All questions for decision at any meeting of the Board
shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the members
present. In the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman or
the member presiding at such meeting shall, in addition to
his owti vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, the
Board may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings
and the transaction of business at such meetings.

12. The Minister may give the Board such general or
special directions in writing as to the exercise of its powers
and the discharge of its functions under this Act and the Board
shall give effect to such directions.

13. The Minister may from time to time, order all or any
of the activities of the Institute to be investigated and reported
upon by such person or persons as he may specify, and upon
such order being made, the Board shall afford all such facilities
and furnish all such information, to such person or persons as
may be necessary to give effect to such order.


National Institute of Technical Education             9
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

14. The seal of the Institute—

(q) shall be in the custody of such person or persons as
the Board may from time to time determine ;

(®) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ;

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument or document
except in the presence of (wo members of the Board
both of whom shall sign the instrument or document
in token of their presence.

1S. (1) The Board may establish as many Academic
Affairs Syndicates of the Institute (hereinafter referred to as
a “Syndicate”) as it may deem necessary, to make
Fecommendations on different fields of technical and
vacational training or on any other activity of the Institute.

(2) Each Syndicate shall consist of not less than three
members appointed by the Board, from among the members
Of the staff of the Institute and from among persons of
eminence in the respective technical and vocational training
fields for which such Syndicate was established.

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a Syndicate shall
be responsible for the academic affairs of the Institute within
the scope of the activities assigned to such Syndicate.

(4) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred to it by subsection (3), each Syndicate shall exercise,
Perform and discharge, the following powers, duties and
functions :-—

(@) conduct examinations perscribed by the Institute in
accordance with the rules made in that behalf, and
recommend to the Board, persons who, having passed
such examinations and satisfied other prescribed
conditions, are eligible for the award of certificates,
diplomas, associate degrees and other academic
distinctions of the Institute ;

Seal of the
Institute,

‘Academic affairs
syndicate.


10

National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

(®) advise the Board on matters pertaining to technical
and vacational training ;

(©) consider and report on any matter referred to it by the
Board ;

(@) make recommendations and reports to the Board on
matters connected with the courses of study, teaching
programme or programmes and examinations,
conducted or held, by the Institute ;

(©) recommend to the Board, the requirements to be
imposed for the admission of technical and vocational
trainers to courses of study, teaching programmes and
examinations conducted or held by the Institute ;

(PD) make rules relating to the courses of study, teaching
programmes and examinations conducted by the
Institute and submit such rules to the Board for
approval ;

) recommend to the Board, names of persons suitable
for appointment as examiners at examinations
conducted or held by the Institute ;             .

(A) recommend to the Board, conditions for the award of
scholarships, medals and other distinctions ;

(@, appoint with the permission of the Board, committees

* to assist the Syndicate in the performance of its
functions and may appoint such persons not being
members of a Syndicate to be members of any such
committee.


National Institute of Technical Education           iT
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

PART IIL

‘APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR-GENERAL AND STAFF OF THE
.              InsmrruTe
16. (1) The Minster shall, in consultation with the Board,
appoint a Director-General who shall be the chief executive
officer of the Board. The terms and conditions of employment
including the remuneration of the Director-General shall be
determined by the Minister in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction and control of the Board, be charged with the
direction of the affairs of the Institute, the exercise, discharge
and performance of its powers, functions and duties, and the
administration and control of the officers and servants of the
Institute.

(3) The Director-General may, with the approval of the
Board, whenever he considers it necessary to do so, delegate
to any officer or servant of the Board, any power, function or
duty conferred or imposed on or assigned to him by this Act
and such officer or servant shall exercise, discharge and
Perform such power, function or duty subject to the general
0F special directions of the Director-General.

(4) The Minister may, without assigning any reason
therefor, remove from office the Director-General appointed
under subsection (1) and such reifioval shall not be called in
question in any Court.

(S) The office of the Director-General shall became vacant
upon the death, removal from office under subsection (4), or
resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to the Minister.

(©) Unless removed from office under subsection (4), any
Person who has been appointed as Director-General shall be
eligible for re-appointment as Director-General.

Appointment of
Director-General
of the Institute.


Staff of the
Institute,

12           National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

(7) Ifany vacancy occurs in the office of Director-General
the Minister may, appoint a member of the Board to perform
the duties of the office of Director-General, until an
appointment is made under subsection (1).

17. (1) The Institute may appoint such officers and
servants as it considers necessary for the exercise and
performance of the powers and duties of the Institute,

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates,
and shall be subject to such conditions of service, as may be
determined by the Institute.

(3) Atthe request of the Institute any officer in the public
service may, with the consent of that officer and the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister in-charge of the subject of
Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to the staff
of the Institute for such period as may be determined by the
Institute with like consent, or be permanently appointed to
such staff.                                                  .

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commision Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply to and in relation to such officer.

(©) Where the Institute employs a person who has agreed
to serve the Government for a specified period, any period of
service to the Institute by that person shall be regarded as
service to the Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of that person under such agreement.


National Institute of Technical Education            13
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

(7) At the request of the Institute, any member of the Local
Government Service or any other employee of a Local
Authority, may, with the consent of such member, employee
and the Local Government Service Commission, or the Local
Authority, as the case may be, be temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Institute for such period as may be determined
by the Institute with like consent or be permanently appointed
to such staff on such terms and conditions including those
relating to pension or Provident Fund rights as may be agreed
upon by the Institute and the Local Government Service
Commission or that Local Authority.

(8) Where any member of the Local Government Service
or any employee of any Local Authority is appointed
temporarily under subsection (7) to the staff of the Institute,
he shall be subject to the same disciplinary control as any
‘other member of such staff

(9) Atthe request of the Institute, any employee of a Public
Corporation may, with the consent of such employee and the
Governing Board of such Corporation, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Institute for such period as may
be determined by the Institute with like consent or be
Permanently appointed to the staff of the Institute with like
consent under such terms and conditions, including those
relating to pension or Provident Fund rights, as may be agreed
upon by the Institute and the Governing Board of such
‘Corporation.

(10) At the request of the Institute, an officer or servant
of any Higher Educational Institution established under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may with the consent of
that officer or servant, the University Grants Commission and
the principal executive officer of that Higher Educational
Institution be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute
for such period as may be determined by the Institute with
like consent, or with like consent be permanently appointed
to such staff.


Delegation of
powers, functions
and duties to
officers and
servants of the
Institute.

‘The Fund of the
Institute.

14           National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

18. The Institute may delegate any of its powers or
functions (other than the power conferred on it by this section)
to any officer or servant of the Institute and any such power
or function shall be exercised, or discharged by such officer
or servant subject to the special or general direction of the
Institute.

PARTIV
FINANCE

19. (1) The Institute shall have its own fund (hereinafter
referred to as the “Fund”).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Institute—

(@) all such sums of money as may be voted from
time to time by Parliament for the use of the
Institute ;

(®) all such sums of money as may be received by
the Institute in the exercise, performance,
discharge its powers, duties and functions ; and

(©) all such sums of money as may be received by
the Institute by way of income, fees, charges,
loans, donations, gifts or grants from any source
whatsoever, whether from within or outside Sri
Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute—

(@ all such sums of money as are required to defray
any expenditure incurred by the Institute in the
exercise, performance and discharge of its powers,
duties and functions under this Act ; and

(®) all such sums of money as are required to be paid
‘out of the Fund, by or under, this Act.


National Institute of Technical Education           15
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

20. The Institute may, with the concurrence of the
Minister and the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,
rin accordance with the terms of any general authority given
with like concurrence, borrow, by way of over-draft or
otherwise, or negotiate and obtain on credit terms, such sums
as the Institute may require for the purpose of discharging its
functions under this Act :

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstanding in
Tespect of any amount borrowed by the Institute under this
section shall not at any time exceed such sum as may be
determined by the Minister with the concurrence of the
Minister in-charge of the subject of Finance.

21. The financial year of the Institute shall be the calendar
year,

22. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shall,
apply to the audit of the accounts of the Institute.

PARTV

GENERAL

23, (1) All property movable and immovable vested in
the National Institute of Technical Education of the
Department of Technical Education and Training (in this
section referred to as the “National Institute of Technical
Education”) and used on the day preceding the appointed date
for the purposes of the National Institute of Technical
Education shall be transferred to and for all purposes be
deemed to have vested in, the Institute with effect from the
appointed date.

(2) All contracts and agreements entered into, by, or with,
the National Institute of Technical Education for the purposes
of the Department of Technical Education and Training, and
all liabilities incurred by the National Institute of Technical

Borrowing powers
ofthe Institute,

Financial year of
the Institute.

‘Audit of accounts
of the Institute.

Transfer of
functions,
funds or

National Institute
of Technical
Education?


Power of the
Minister to vest
‘State land in the
Institute.

Acquisition of
immovable
property under the.
Land Acquisition
Act for the
Institute,

16        National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

Education in respect of the Department of Technical Education
and Training, and subsisting on the day preceding the
appointed date shall be deemed, with effect from the appointed
date to be contracts, agreements and liabilities entered into,
by or with the Institute and may be enforced accordingly.

(3) The Minister may, for the purpose of facilitating the
transfer of functions from the National Institute of Technical
Education of the Department of Technical Education and
Training to the Institute, make such transitional orders, as are
not inconsistent with any written law, which shall have effect
for a period not exceeding two years from the appointed date.

24, (1) Notwithstanding anything in the Crown Lands
Ordinance or any other written law, where the Minister
considers that any State Land is required by the Institute for
the purpose of discharging its functions, the Minister may,
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Lands, by Order (hereinafter in this Act referred to as a
“Vesting Order”) published in the Gazette, vest such land in
the Institute with effect from such date as shall be specified
in the Order, subject to such restrictions or conditions, if any,
as may be specified therein.

(2) A Vesting Order shall, subject to such restrictions and
conditions as may be specified therein, have the effect of
giving the Institute absolute title to any land specified in such
‘Vesting Order, free from all encumbrances.

25. Where any immovable property of the State is
required for the purposes of the Institute, including the use of
such property as a residence for any officer or servant of
Institute, that property may, if the Minister by Order published
in the Gazette approves the proposed acquisition, be deemed
to be required for a public purpose and may accordingly be
acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and be transferred
to the Institute under that Act.


National Institute of Technical Education           17
of Sri Lanka Act, No.59 of 1998

26. The Board shall, before the expiry of a period of six
months after the closure of each financial year of the Institute,
transmit a report giving a full account of the activities of the
Institute during that year to the Minister who shall cause copies
thereof to be laid before Parliament,

__ 27. The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and the
Provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

28. All members of the Board and, officers and servants
of the Institute shall be deemed to be public servants within
the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

29. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—

(@ against the Institute for any act which in good faith is
donee or purported to be done, by the Institute under
this Act ; and

(®) against any member of the Board, or any officer,
servant or agent of the Institute for any act which in
g00d faith is done, or purported to be done by him
under this Act or on the direction of the Board.

_  @) Any expense incurred by the Institute in any suit or
Prosecution brought by or against the Institute before any
Court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute, and any
costs paid to, or recovered by, the Institute in any such suit or
Prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of the Institute.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referred
to in paragraph (b) subsection (1) in any suit or prosecution
brought against him before any court in respect of any act
which is done or purported to be done, by him under this Act

ES

Institute
deemed to be
ascheduled

institution
within the
‘meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Members of the
Board and officers
of the Institute
deemed to be
public servants.

Protection of
action taken
‘under this Act.


Regulations.

‘Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.

18           National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998

or on the direction of the Board shall, if the court holds that
such act was done in good faith, be paid out of the fund of the
Institute, unless such expense is recovered by him in such
suit ot prosecution.

30. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication,

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, as
soon as convenient after publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval and any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of its disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is
deemed to be so rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

31. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

32. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabah and includes any
authority created or established by or under any law
to exercise, perform and discharge powers, duties
and functions corresponding to or similar to the
powers, duties and functions exercised, performed
and discharged by any such Council or Sabha ;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution ;

“University Grants Commission” means the University
Grants Commission established by the Universities
Act, No. 16 of 1978,
