PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATIONACT, No. 45 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th of August, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 240.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 09, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Preamble

[Certified on 09th of August, 2024]

L.D.O. 21/2024

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE NATIONAL POLICY ON ECONOMICTRANSFORMATION AND FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ECONOMICCOMMISSION OF SRI LANKA, INVESTMENT ZONES SRI LANKA, OFFICE

FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE, NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY COMMISSION,

AND SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ECONOMICS AND INTERNATIONALTRADE; FOR THE REPEAL OF THE BOARD OF INVESTMENT OF SRILANKA LAW, NO. 4 OF 1978 AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS the global economic landscape is rapidlyevolving, characterised by technological advancements,shifting demographics, and emerging environmentalchallenges:

AND WHEREAS acknowledging the interconnectedness ofnational economies and the importance of internationalcooperation in addressing shared economic challenges:

AND WHEREAS economic transformation is vital forfostering sustainable development, enhancing prosperity,boosting productivity, promoting social progress andensuring equitable opportunities for all citizens:

AND WHEREAS understanding the role of the Governmentof Sri Lanka in creating an enabling environment foreconomic transformation, including through targetedinterventions, investment in infrastructure, and the provisionof essential public services:

AND WHEREAS acknowledging the crucial role ofinvestment in driving economic growth, creatingemployment opportunities, and fostering innovation andtechnological advancement:

2Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

AND WHEREAS affirming Sri Lankas commitment tofostering a transparent, inclusive, and rules-based systemthat promotes fair and equitable treatment of investors, bothdomestic and foreign:

AND WHEREAS recognizing the significance ofinternational trade as a catalyst for economic development,promoting competitiveness, and facilitating the integrationof economies into the global marketplace:

AND WHEREAS understanding the imperative need to enactlegislation that provides a conducive environment forinvestment, expanded trade opportunities, negotiates tradeagreements, and facilitates export-import activities tostimulate economic growth:

AND WHEREAS reaffirming Sri Lankas commitment tointernational cooperation and collaboration to addressglobal challenges and harness opportunities for mutualbenefit:

AND WHEREAS considering the objectives of theDemocratic Socialist Society as provided in subparagraphs(c) and (d) of paragraph (2) of Article 27 of the Constitution:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the EconomicTransformation Act, No. 45 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than the provisionsof Part II, Part III and section 193 shall come into operationon the date on which certificate of the Speaker is endorsedin respect of this Act in terms of Article 79 of the Constitution.

(3) The provisions of Part II, Part III and section 193shall come into operation on such date as the Minister mayappoint by Order published in Gazette, which shall be a datewithin three months from date of the certificate of the Speakerreferred to in subsection (2) (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

Short title anddate ofoperation

3Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

PART I

CHAPTER I

NATIONAL POLICY ON ECONOMIC TRANSFORMATION

2. The objects of the National Policy on EconomicTransformation shall be-

(a)to make realisation by all citizens of an adequatestandard of living for themselves and their families,including adequate food, clothing and housing, thecontinuous improvement of living conditions andthe full enjoyment of leisure and social and culturalopportunities;

(b)to create rapid development of the whole countryby means of public and private economic activityand by laws prescribing such planning and controlsas may be expedient for directing and coordinatingsuch public and private economic activity towardssocial objectives and the public weal; and

(c)to avoid an economic crisis.

3. (1) The National Policy on Economic Transformationshall provide for

(a)the restructuring of the debt owed by theGovernment, that the-

(i)Public Debt to Gross Domestic Productionratio shall be below ninety-five per centumby the year 2032 and thereafter;

(ii)Central Government Annual Gross FinancingNeeds to Gross Domestic Production ratioshall be below thirteen per centum by theyear 2032 and thereafter; and

National Policyon EconomicTransformation

Objects of theNational Policyon EconomicTransformation

4Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(iii)Central Government Annual Debt Service inForeign Currency to Gross DomesticProduction ratio shall be below four decimalhalf per centum by the year 2027 andthereafter; and

(b)the transformation of Sri Lanka to a highlycompetitive, export-oriented, digital economyincluding-

(i)diversification and deep structural changesof the national economy to boostcompetitiveness;

(ii)achieving Net Zero by the year 2050;

(iii)increasing integration with the globaleconomy;

(iv)achieving stable macroeconomic balancesand sustainable debt;

(v)modernize agriculture to boost farmerproductivity, farmer incomes, and agricultureexports; and

(vi)promote inclusive economic growth andsocial progress.

(2) For the purpose of this section, Net zero means thebalance between the amount of greenhouse gas that isproduced in Sri Lanka and the amount that is removed fromthe atmosphere.

5Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

4. It shall be the duty of the Cabinet of Ministers chargedwith the direction and control of the Government of Sri Lankaunder Article 43 of the Constitution, to base the NationalPolicy on Economic Transformation on the followingtargets: -

(a)Gross Domestic Production growth to reach-

(i)five per centum annually by the year 2027;and

(ii)above five per centum annually thereafter;

Explanation

The year 2027 will mark five years since the beginning of

the crisis. Sri Lankas positive recovery shall enshrine a

full economic recovery by the year 2027. The economic

growth shall be accelerated to above five per centum after

the year 2030 to achieve an Advanced Economy status by

the year 2048.

(b)unemployment to reach below five per centum ofthe labour force from the year 2025;

Explanation

Unemployment rates in Sri Lanka have typically been low

and a target rate of five per centum locks this in.

(c)Female Labour Force Participation to reach-

(i)not less than forty per centum by the year2030; and

(ii)not less than fifty per centum by the year2040;

Duty of theCabinet ofMinisters inrelation to theNational Policyon EconomicTransformation

6Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Explanation

Measures to increase Female Labour Force Participation

may significantly increase labour productivity and growth

in the economy.

(d)current account deficit of the balance of paymentsshall not exceed one per centum of Gross DomesticProduction annually;

Explanation

Persistent current account surpluses may help Sri Lanka

manage its external debt service obligations on a sustainable

basis. However, in case of a current account deficit in a

given year, this deficit shall be limited to less than one per

centum of Gross Domestic Production.

(e)exports of goods and services as a percentage ofGross Domestic Production to reach-

(i)not less than twenty-five per centum of GrossDomestic Production by the year 2025;

(ii)not less than forty per centum of GrossDomestic Production by the year 2030; and

(iii)sixty per centum of Gross DomesticProduction by the year 2040;

Explanation

A target of forty per centum of Gross Domestic Production

by the year 2030 is needed to convert Sri Lanka from an

inward-oriented economy to an outward-oriented

economy.

7Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(f)Net Foreign Direct Investment as a percentage ofGross Domestic Production to reach-

(i)not less than five per centum of GrossDomestic Production by the year 2030; and

(ii)at least forty per centum of Net Foreign DirectInvestment to be in exports of goods orexports of services by the year 2030;

Explanation

Shift to export-oriented Foreign Direct Investment in orderto support the growth of non-debt creating inflows to theeconomy.

(g)Primary Balance in the Government Budget to reachtwo decimal three per centum of Gross DomesticProduction until the year 2032 and at least two percentum of Gross Domestic Production from the year2032 onwards;

Explanation

In order to prevent the recurrence of such an economiccrisis, it is essential to ensure that a primary surplus of atleast two per centum of Gross Domestic Production ismaintained in the Government budget.

(h)Government revenue to reach at least fifteen percentum of the Gross Domestic Production beyondthe year 2027; and

Explanation

To maintain robust domestic resource mobilization.

(i)multidimensional poverty headcount ratio to beless than fifteen per centum by the year 2027 andless than ten per centum by the year 2035.

8Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Explanation

The reduction of multi-dimensional poverty (including

education, health, housing and access to basic services) to

promote inclusive growth through economic transformation.

5. (1) The President shall, commencing from the year 2025,ensure that every five years, the Cabinet of Ministers shallprepare and present to Parliament a report on the policyframework and strategies (including proposed legislation)to give effect to the National Policy on EconomicTransformation as set out in sections 3 and 4.

(2) The Cabinet of Ministers may from time to time revisesuch report and present such revisions to Parliament.

(3) Such report shall be presented to Parliament by theMinister assigned the subject of Economic Policy, inaccordance with the Standing Orders and the first reportshall be presented to Parliament in the year 2025.

6. All policies, programmes, regulations, circulars anddirectives of the Government shall conform to such NationalPolicy on Economic Transformation.

7. (1) The Government shall, through the Ministerassigned the subject of Economic Policy, present toParliament by thirty first day of March each year the measuresbeing taken towards achieving each target of the NationalPolicy on Economic Transformation. The first such reportshall be presented to Parliament immediately after the expiryof one year from the date of commencement of this Part.

Cabinet ofMinisters toprepare a reporton the policyframework andstrategies

Policies ofGovernment toconform toNational Policyon EconomicTransformation

Commitment toachieving thekey targets ofthe policy andremedialmeasures forany deviationfrom the targets

9Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Where the target has not been met, the Governmentshall inform Parliament of the measures being taken toremedy the situation and indicate when the target will bemet. The remedial measures shall reflect a firm commitmentand comprehensive strategy to meet the targets, which shallbe a binding condition.

8. Parliament, in the exercise of its powers under Article43 and Article 148 of the Constitution, shall have theoversight control over the Cabinet of Ministers in theexecution of its powers and responsibilities under this Act.

9. The following agencies shall assist the Government inachieving the objects of rapid growth for the nationaleconomic transformation-

(a)Economic Commission established by section 11;

(b)Zones SL established by section 61;

(c)Office for International Trade established bysection 99;

(d)National Productivity Commission established bysection 132; and

(e)Sri Lanka Institute of Economics and InternationalTrade established by section 162.

PART II

CHAPTER II

APPLICATION OF THIS PART

10. (1) The provisions of this Part shall apply toinvestments and international trade of Sri Lanka.

Oversightcontrol ofParliament

Agencies toassist theGovernment

Application ofthis Part

10Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The provisions of this Part shall not apply to theColombo Port City Special Economic Zone established undersection 2 of the Colombo Port City Economic CommissionAct, No. 11 of 2021.

CHAPTER III

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ECONOMIC COMMISSION OF SRI LANKA

11. (1) There shall be established a Commission whichshall be called the Economic Commission of Sri Lanka (inthis Act referred to as the Economic Commission).

(2) The Economic Commission shall, by the nameassigned to it under subsection (1), be a body corporate withperpetual succession and a common seal and may sue andbe sued in such name.

(3) The Commission shall have its principal office in SriLanka and may establish any branch office or otherrepresentation within or outside Sri Lanka.

12. The objects of the Economic Commission shall be-

(a)to contribute to the creation and maintenance of arobust investment climate, the promotion andfacilitation of sustainable foreign direct investmentwhich will stimulate international trade by theincrease of exports and increase employmentopportunities for the citizens of Sri Lanka;

(b)to evaluate the need for Investment Zones in SriLanka, and provide guidance and regulatoryoversight for the operation and management of suchInvestment Zones to the Zones SL or any otherentity established by or under Part III;

Establishment ofthe EconomicCommission ofSri Lanka

Objects of theEconomicCommission

11Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(c)to promote and enable the ease of doing businessfor investors, investments and exporters;

(d)to determine the investments which are of strategicimportance which include significant inflows offoreign exchange into Sri Lanka by way of foreigndirect investment, the export of goods and services,and large-scale employment within Sri Lanka, andwhich result in significant benefits to the overalldevelopment of the economy;

(e)to review and recommend incentives to the Ministerfor the promotion of investments which aredetermined by the Economic Commission underparagraph (d) to be of strategic importance;

(f)to facilitate a smooth and efficient process forenabling investments;

(g)to expand and strengthen Sri Lankas economy byfacilitating investments and formulating policieswhich will stimulate international trade by theincrease of exports, thereby diversifying the sourcesof foreign exchange and increase of export earningsand to recommend such policies to the Cabinet ofMinisters; and

(h)to encourage and foster the establishment anddevelopment of industrial and commercialenterprises within Sri Lanka.

13. The Economic Commission shall, in the performanceand discharge of its duties and functions exercise thefollowing powers: -

Powers of theEconomicCommission

12Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)to recommend the declaration of Investment Zonesto the Minister;

(b)to formulate, oversee, and direct the implementationof reforms required for improving the investmentclimate;

(c)to review policies, laws and regulations relating toinvestments, international trade and exports, andto advise the Minister on measures that areconsidered necessary to facilitate the attainment ofthe objects of the Economic Commission by theissuance or amendment of laws and regulations;

(d)to take all necessary measures to promote domesticand foreign investments and international trade toachieve greater export-orientated growth, economicdiversification and technological advancement;

(e)to enter into agreements with or engage in anyactivity in furtherance of its duties and functions,either alone or in conjunction with othergovernmental or regulatory institutions orinternational agencies or organizations, handlingmatters related to investment and trade;

(f)to enter into contracts with any person as may benecessary in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions;

(g)to approve or register, as the case may be,investments or enterprises as provided for in thisPart;

13Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(h)to establish or create entities, including separatelegal entities incorporated under the CompaniesAct, No. 07 of 2007, as may be necessary to attainthe objects of the Economic Commission, to carryout any of the duties and functions of the EconomicCommission;

(i)to delegate or assign such powers, duties orfunctions subject to such terms and conditions, tosuch entities created under paragraph (h), as theEconomic Commission may determine;

(j)to give special or general directives to any entitycreated by the Economic Commission for thepurpose of discharging its objects and functions;

(k)to appoint advisory committees to assist theEconomic Commission in fulfilling its mandate;

(l)to recognize certification and certifying bodies inrelation to investment and international trade;

(m)to determine an amount up to ten per centum of thefees charged by the Zones SL to issue any licenceunder Part III, to be credited to the EC Fund;

(n)to purchase, or take and hold any property, movableor immovable, which may become vested in it andto sell, mortgage, lease, convey, devise, assign,exchange or dispose of any such movable orimmovable property;

(o)to purchase, hold and sell shares, stocks, debenturesand similar assets;

(p)to employ such officers and staff includingconsultants and advisors subject to such terms andconditions as the Economic Commission mayconsider appropriate to enable it to discharge itsfunctions under this Part;

14Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(q)to invest its funds in such manner as the EconomicCommission may deem necessary including theopening, operation and closing of bank accounts;

(r)to make rules and issue guidelines in respect ofmatters under this Part; and

(s)to do any other acts as may be necessary orconducive to the attainment of the objects of theEconomic Commission under this Part.

14. The duties and functions of the EconomicCommission shall be-

(a)to design, recommend and implement nationalpolicies regarding investments, and the stimulationof international trade to achieve national economicmilestones;

(b)to formulate schemes and measures to ensure thatexisting investors are encouraged to retain, reinvestand expand their investments in Sri Lanka;

(c)to take necessary measures to facilitate investmentsby streamlining, digitizing and creating atransparent regulatory and operational environmentincluding a process for the registration and approvalof investments;

(d)to take necessary measures to ensure that tradenegotiations will be directly aligned with SriLankas strategic export and investment objects andreap the expected benefits of the trade-investmentnexus;

Duties andFunctions of theEconomicCommission

15Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(e)to propose strategic policy actions that may berequired to attract and stimulate transformationalinvestments to the Minister;

(f)to recommend the creation of Investment Zones;

(g)to undertake periodic performance reviews ofinvestments as well as the flow of investments intoInvestment Zones;

(h)to conduct research on the performance andprospects of trade and investment to assist in theformulation of government policies;

(i)to coordinate between government entities to meetthe objects of the Economic Commission; and

(j)to do all such other acts as may be necessary orconducive to the attainment of any or all of theobjects of the Economic Commission.

15. (1) The Minister shall, upon receipt of arecommendation under paragraph (f) of section 14 to declarean Investment Zone, with the approval of the Cabinet ofMinisters, by Notice published in the Gazette, declare suchInvestment Zone by specifying-

(a)the metes and bounds of the land area which shallfall within such Zone; and

(b)the sector in which such zone falls and whether it isa single sector or multiple sector zone as referred toin subsection (5).

(2) Where whole or part of Investment Zone is privateland, the notice published under subsection (1) shall, inrespect such private land, be deemed to be a notice publishedunder section 2 of the Land Acquisition Act (Chapter 450)and provisions of that Act shall mutatis mutandis apply inrelation to such private land.

Minister todeclareInvestmentZones

16Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) The President may make or execute a grant or anyother alienation or disposition of any State land within anyInvestment Zone to the Zones SL, subject to the conditionthat any such State land shall not be alienated for privateuse except to the developers, operators or enterprises or otherbody of persons established within such Investment Zone.

(4) Upon a grant, alienation or disposition made orexecuted under subsection (3), the Zone SL shall, subject toconditions specified therein, be responsible for the use ofsuch land.

(5) An Investment Zone may be designated as a singlesector or multiple sector zone and may include but not limitedto-

(a)industries;

(b)information communication technologyenterprises;

(c)science and technology enterprises;

(d)high technology agricultural enterprises;

(e)tourist and recreational enterprises;

(f)business service enterprises; or

(g)livestock enterprises.

(6) (a) Subject to the provisions of any other written law,a person shall not carry on the business of a zone developer,operator or enterprise or provide or maintain activities orfacilities within a Zone without being registered with theEconomic Commission or Zones SL, as the case may be, inaccordance with the regulations made under Part II or Part III.

(b) A Zone shall be a designated geographical area wherebusiness enabling policies, integrated land uses and sector-appropriate on-site and off-site infrastructure and utilitiesshall be provided, or which has the potential to be developed,

17Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

whether on a public, private-public partnership or privatebasis where any goods introduced and specified servicesprovided are regarded, in so far as import duties and taxesare concerned as being outside the area that falls within theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235), and wherein the benefitsprovided under this Part apply.

CHAPTER IV

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE ECONOMIC COMMISSION

16. (1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Economic Commission shall be vested in a Board ofMembers (in this Part referred to as the EC Board).

(2) The EC Board shall, for the purpose of administeringand managing the affairs of the Economic Commission,exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to theEconomic Commission by this Part.

(3) The EC Board shall consist of not more than tenmembers comprising of the following: -

(a)the following ex officio members:-

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance or hisnominee who shall be an officer not belowthe rank of Deputy Secretary to the Treasury;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Investment or hisnominee who shall be an officer not belowthe rank of Additional Secretary;

(iii)the Chairperson of the Office for InternationalTrade;

(iv)the Chairperson of the Zones SL; and

Administrationand managementof the EconomicCommission

18Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)not more than six persons appointed by thePresident (in this Part referred to as the appointedmembers) comprising of persons havingknowledge, expertise and experience and nationalor international recognition in the fields ofEconomics, Investment, International Trade,Finance, Law, Information Technology, Logistics,Manufacturing or Business.

(4) The EC Board shall invite the persons designated bythe Economic Commission or under any other law to headany authorities which may be designated by the EconomicCommission or vested with the responsibility by any otherlaw over Investment Zones and export promotion anddevelopment to attend meetings of the EconomicCommission, provided that they shall not be entitled to avote thereat.

17. (1) The President shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairperson of the EC Board.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from the office of theChairperson by letter on that behalf addressed to thePresident and such resignation shall be effective from thedate on which it is accepted in writing by the President.

(3) The President may for reasons assigned therefor removethe Chairperson from the office of Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3)the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofhis term of office as a member of the EC Board.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office due to ill health, otherinfirmity, absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less thanthree months or any other cause, the President may appointany other appointed member to act as the Chairperson inaddition to his normal duties.

Chairperson ofthe EC Board

19Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

18. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor nominated or from continuing as a member of the ECBoard if such person-

(a)is, or becomes a Member of Parliament, or a Memberof any Provincial Council or any local authority;

(b)is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d)is a person who, having been declared as insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orany other country is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt;

(e)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;

(f)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the EconomicCommission;

(g)has any financial or other interest direct or indirectas is likely to affect prejudicially the exercise,performance and discharge by such person of hispowers, duties and functions as a member of the ECBoard; or

(h)has been previously removed from office.

19. Every appointed member of the EC Board shall,unless such person vacates office earlier by death,resignation or removal, hold office for a period of three yearsfrom the date of appointment, and unless removed from officeshall be eligible for re-appointment for not more than onefurther term, whether consecutive or otherwise.

Disqualificationsfor being amember of theEC Board

Term of office

20Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

20. (1) Any appointed member of the EC Board may, atany time, resign from his office by letter in that behalfaddressed to the President, and such resignation shall takeeffect from the date on which the resignation is accepted inwriting by the President.

(2) The President may remove any appointed member ofthe EC Board, from office-

(a)by written notice, if such person becomes incapableof effectively performing the duties of office due toill health or incapacitation; or

(b)being satisfied, upon consideration ofrepresentations made, that such person is guilty offraud, grave misconduct or gross negligence, orbeing incapable of effectively dischargingresponsibilities vested on such person (includingregular non-attendance of meetings) which warrantsremoval from office with immediate effect.

(3) An appointed member shall be disqualified fromcontinuing as a member of the EC Board if such personabsents himself from three consecutive meetings of the ECBoard or one third of the meetings for any calendar yearwithout being excused for such absence by the EC Board.

(4) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal from office of any appointed memberof the EC Board, the President shall, having regard to theprovisions of sections 16 and 18, appoint another person tofill such vacancy. Such person shall hold office for the un-expired period of the term of office of the member whom he

Removal,resignation etc.of appointedmembers

21Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

succeeds, and unless removed from office, shall be eligiblefor re-appointment for not more than one further term,whether consecutive or otherwise.

(5) Where any appointed member of the EC Board istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause, or if he is absentfrom Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months, thePresident shall, having regard to the provisions of sections16 and 18, appoint any other person to act in place of suchmember during his absence.

21. (1) Any member of the EC Board who has a direct orindirect interest in any person, company, investment, export,trade or any other matter involving the exercise of discretionof the Economic Commission or its vote or direction, shallforthwith inform the Director General of the EconomicCommission in writing of the nature and extent of suchinterest and such disclosure shall be duly recorded atmeetings of the EC Board where such matters are discussed.Such member shall not participate at any meeting at whichsuch matters are discussed or vote on any decision whichdirectly or indirectly relates to such interest.

(2) If any member of the EC Board fails or neglects todeclare a conflict of interest as set out in subsection (1), suchmember shall be subject to disqualification from being amember of the EC Board.

22. (1) The meetings of the EC Board shall be held atleast once in three months or as is required for the purpose ofexercising, performing and discharging the powers, dutiesand functions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to theEC Board by this Part.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the EC Board shall befive members.

Conflicts ofinterest

Quorum and the

meetings of the

EC Board

22Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) A meeting of the EC Board may be held either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute thequorum being assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting thequorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.

(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of the ECBoard shall be decided by the vote of the majority of memberspresent and voting at such meeting. In the case of an equalityof votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to his vote, havea casting vote.

(5) The Chairperson, if present, shall preside at everymeeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairpersonfrom any meeting of the EC Board, any member elected bythe members present shall preside at such meeting of the ECBoard.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the EC Board may regulate the procedure to be followed forthe summoning and holding of meetings of the EC Boardand the transaction of business at such meetings.

23. The EC Board may act notwithstanding any vacancyamong its members, and any act or proceeding of the ECBoard shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid by reason onlyof the existence of any vacancy among its members or anydefect in the appointment of a member thereof.

24. The Chairperson and the members of the EC Boardshall be paid such remuneration in such manner and at suchrates as may be determined by the Minister, with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

Acts orproceedings ofthe EC Boarddeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe EC Board

23Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

25. (1) The seal of the Economic Commission shall be asdetermined by the EC Board.

(2) The seal of the Economic Commission

(a)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Economic Commission; and

(b)shall be in the custody of such person or persons asthe Economic Commission may determine fromtime to.

(3) The seal of the Economic Commission shall not beaffixed to any instrument or document except with thesanction of the EC Board and in the presence of theChairperson and one other member of the EC Board whoshall sign the instrument or document in token of theirpresence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable tobe present at the time when the seal of the EconomicCommission is affixed to any instrument or document, anyother member of the EC Board authorized in writing by theChairperson on that behalf shall be competent to sign suchinstrument or document in accordance with the precedingprovision of this subsection.

(4) The EC Board shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the EconomicCommission has been affixed.

CHAPTER V

DIRECTOR GENERAL AND STAFF OF THE ECONOMIC COMMISSION

26. (1) There shall be a Director General of the EconomicCommission (hereinafter referred to as the EC DirectorGeneral) appointed by the Minister on the recommendationof the EC Board and who shall be the Chief Executive Officerand Accounting Officer of the Economic Commission.

Seal of theEconomicCommission

Director General

24Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The qualification and experience of the person whoshall be appointed as the EC Director General and the termsand conditions of employment of the EC Director Generalshall be as prescribed by regulation.

(3) The EC Director General shall, subject to the generalor special directions and control of the EC Board

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Economic Commission including theadministration and control of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe EC Board; and

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the EC Board.

(4) The EC Director General shall be entitled to be presentand speak at any meeting of the EC Board, but shall not beentitled to vote at such meeting.

(5) The EC Board may delegate such of its powers, dutiesand functions under this Part, as it may determine, either tothe EC Director General or to any officer of the EconomicCommission and the EC Director General or any officer ofthe Economic Commission shall exercise, perform anddischarge such delegated powers, duties and functionssubject to the direction and supervision of the EconomicCommission.

(6) The EC Director General may, with the approval ofthe EC Board, delegate in writing to any administrativeunit or officer or employee of the Economic Commission,such of the powers, duties or functions of the EC DirectorGeneral as may be considered necessary from time to time,and any such administrative unit or officer or employee towhom any such powers, duties or functions are delegated,shall be responsible for the same, and shall exercise, performand discharge them subject to the direction and supervisionof the EC Board or the EC Director General.

25Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(7) The EC Director General shall be responsible andanswerable to the EC Board in the exercise, performanceand discharge of his powers, duties and functions under thisPart.

(8) The Minister may, in consultation with the EC Board,and subject to the provisions of subsection (9), remove theEC Director General from office-

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b)if he has done any act which, in the opinion of theEC Board, is of a fraudulent or illegal character oris prejudicial to the interests of the EconomicCommission; or

(c)if he has failed to comply with any directions issuedby the EC Board.

(9) Prior to being removed under subsection (8), the ECDirector General shall be issued a notice in writing to showcause as to why he should not be removed from office and begiven an opportunity of being heard against any allegationsmade against him.

(10) The office of the EC Director General shall becomevacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection(8) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to theMinister by the holder of that office.

(11) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the EC DirectorGeneral, the Minister may, in consultation with the ECBoard, appoint an appointed member of the Board to exercise,perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions ofthe EC Director General until an appointment is made undersubsection (1).

26Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(12) The EC Director General shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the EC Board inconsultation with the Minister.

27. (1) The Economic Commission may create cadrepositions and employ officers and employees as it considersnecessary for the efficient discharge of its functions for thepurposes of carrying out its duties and functions under theprovisions of this Part.

(2) The EC Board may, in respect of the officers andemployees employed under subsection (1)

(a)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Finance;

(c)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees; and

(d)implement a code of conduct which shall beapplicable to such officers and employees.

(3) The EC Board may make rules in respect of all or anyof the matters referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The Economic Commission shall promote and sponsorthe training of technical personnel on the subjects ofinvestment, trade and other related subjects and for thispurpose, the Economic Commission shall be authorized todefray the costs of study, in Sri Lanka or abroad of suchofficers.

(5) The Economic Commission shall not appoint anyperson to the staff of the Economic Commission, if suchperson-

Staff of theEconomicCommission

27Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)has been previously found guilty of a crime or anact of serious misconduct by a civil court or tribunalor has been subject to proceedings for a regulatory,code of conduct or related violation by a regulatorin Sri Lanka or abroad; or

(b)has committed a breach of the provisions of thisPart or regulations, rules or directives madethereunder.

28. (1) At the request of the Economic Commission anyofficer in the public service may, with the consent of theofficer and the Public Service Commission be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Economic Commission for suchperiod as may be determined by the Economic Commissionor with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Economic Commission, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Economic Commission, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Economic Commission employs anyperson who has entered into a contract with the Governmentby which he has agreed to serve the Government for aspecified period, any period of service with the EconomicCommission by that person shall be regarded as service tothe Government, for the purpose of discharging theobligations of such contract.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe EconomicCommission

28Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

CHAPTER VI

FINANCE

29. The EC Board shall be charged with the financialmanagement of the Economic Commission and the dueoperation and management of the EC Fund established interms of section 30.

30. (1) The Economic Commission shall have its ownFund (hereinafter referred to as the EC Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the EC Fund-

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament for the use of the Economic Commission;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theEconomic Commission through the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions either directly or through entities createdby it under this Part;

(c)all such sums of money as may be paid as fees underthe provisions of this Part; and

(d)upto ten per centum of the fees charged by the ZonesSL to issue any licence under Part III, as may bedetermined by the Economic Commission underparagraph (m) of section 13.

(3) There shall be paid out of the EC Fund all such sumsas are required to defray expenditure incurred by theEconomic Commission in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Partor under any other written law and all such sums as arerequired to be paid out of the EC Fund.

Financialmanagement ofthe EconomicCommission

Fund of theEconomicCommission

29Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(4) Monies belonging to the EC Fund may be invested bythe Economic Commission in such manner as may bedetermined by the EC Board.

31. (1) The financial year of the Economic Commissionshall be the calendar year.

(2) The Economic Commission shall cause proper booksof accounts to be kept of the income, expenditure, assetsand liabilities and all other financial transactions of theEconomic Commission.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of accounts of the EconomicCommission.

(4) The EC Board shall submit the audited statement ofaccounts together with the auditors report to the Ministerto be tabled in Parliament.

CHAPTER VII

NATIONAL POLICIES ON INVESTMENT, INTERNATIONAL TRADE ANDINVESTMENT ZONES

32. (1) The Economic Commission shall formulate andrecommend to the Cabinet of Ministers the national policieson investment, international trade and investment zones, toenable the realization of the National Policy on EconomicTransformation as specified in sections 3 and 4, and forwardthe same to the President and the Minister.

(2) The Minister shall, upon receipt of approval from theCabinet of Ministers cause such national policies oninvestment, international trade and investment zones to bepublished in the Gazette and tabled in Parliament forapproval.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts of theEconomicCommission

Nationalpolicies oninvestment,internationaltrade andinvestmentzones

30Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) Upon receipt of approval from Parliament undersubsection (2), the national policies as so approved shall bethe national policies on investment, international trade, andinvestment zones.

(4) It shall be the duty of the Economic Commission andother related statutory bodies, Provincial Councils,Provincial Ministries, departments and any other localauthorities to comply with the national policies oninvestment, international trade and investment zones.

(5) The Economic Commission shall ensure that itconsults and coordinates with other agencies havingresponsibilities for substantive matters relating to the mattersof investment and international trade in formulating thenational policies on investment, international trade andinvestment zones.

CHAPTER VIII

ELIGIBILITY AND REGISTRATION OF FOREIGN INVESTORS

33. (1) (a) Subject to the provision of subsection (1)(c),foreign investments shall be permitted into all sectors andregions of Sri Lanka. Foreign investors shall be permitted toown one hundred per centum of the shares in entities engagedin such sectors and regions, unless otherwise determined byway of regulations made under the provision of this Part orany other written law.

(b) Foreign direct investments into Sri Lanka may takeany legal form recognized by the laws of Sri Lanka, includingnew investment into companies incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or as investments intoexisting local companies.

(c) A negative list containing sectors and industries whichare prohibited or restricted for foreign investors shall beprescribed by regulations made under this Part.

Eligibility offoreign investorsand prohibitionsand restrictions

31Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedherein, the Minister may with the approval of the Cabinet ofMinisters introduce new entry requirements or restrictionsfor foreign investments into Sri Lanka by regulations madeunder this Part, if deemed necessary for reasons of nationalsecurity, public emergency, public safety and environmentalprotection.

34. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 33,foreign investors shall register their foreign investments withthe Economic Commission as provided in this section to beeligible for the protections afforded to foreign investors andinvestments in this Part.

(2) For avoidance of doubt, registration under subsection(1) does not exempt foreign investors and foreigninvestments made thereunder, from having to comply withand adhere to any other requirements or conditions that maybe imposed by any other written law in force in Sri Lanka.

(3) Domestic investors shall be required to register theirinvestments with the Economic Commission to obtainfacilitation services under this Part and its implementingregulations.

CHAPTER IX

INVESTMENT GURANTEES

35. The provisions in this Part shall not apply to anybilateral and multilateral investment treaties or theinvestment chapters of any free trade agreements enteredinto by Sri Lanka with any sovereign state.

36. (1) All investments established in Sri Lanka shallreceive fair and equitable treatment and shall enjoy fullprotection and security.

Registration offoreigninvestments

Provisions ofthis Part not toapply to bilateraland multilateralinvestmenttreaties &.c

Fair andequitabletreatment

32Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) For the purposes of this Part-

fair and equitable treatment means theobligation to not to deny justice, in anycriminal, civil or administrative proceedingsin accordance with due process and the lawsof Sri Lanka; and

full protection and security means the provisionof protection for physical security ofinvestments as required under the laws ofSri Lanka.

37. (1) (a) Foreign investments and returns on investmentsof foreign investors shall be accorded treatment not lessfavourable than that accorded to domestic investors, in likecircumstances, as regards acquisition, expansion,management, conduct, operation, and sale or otherdisposition of investments.

(b) For greater certainty in like circumstances shall beassessed based upon an objective assessment of allcircumstances on a case-by-case basis, including the sectorof investment, the location of the investment, the purpose ofany act or measure complained of and the regulatory,governance or legal process generally applied in relation tothe act or measure concerned. The assessment shall not belimited to or biased towards any one factor.

(2) A foreign investor shall not be discriminated in anyform, in like circumstances, including but not limited totheir citizenship, residency, religion, place of registration orthe state of origin of the investment.

(3) The provisions of subsections (1) and (2) shall not beconstrued to oblige Sri Lanka to extend to the foreigninvestors and foreign investments, the benefit of anytreatment, preference or privilege resulting from-

Nationaltreatment andmost favourednation treatment

33Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)any existing or future customs, economic ormonetary union, free trade area or similarinternational agreements to which Sri Lanka is ormay become a party in the future;

(b)any international agreement or arrangement or anydomestic regulation, wholly or partially related totaxation;

(c)any bilateral agreement in force or entered into inthe future; or

(d)any sectors or services that are exclusively reservedto nationals in accordance with the laws of SriLanka.

38. (1) All payments relating to a foreign investment shallbe freely transferable, into and out of Sri Lanka, inaccordance with laws and regulations in force, without delay,and in freely convertible currency. Such transfers shallinclude, in particular-

(a)initial capital and additional amounts to maintainor increase an investment;

(b)return of the investment invested;

(c)payments made under a contract, includingrepayments pursuant to a loan agreement, royalties,fees;

(d)proceeds from the sale or liquidation of all or anypart of an investment;

(e)payments of compensation under section 39;

(f)payments arising out of the settlement of aninvestment dispute; and

(g)earning and other remuneration of personnelengaged from aboard in connection with aninvestment.

Paymentsrelating to aforeigninvestment to befreelytransferable

34Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The transfers referred to in subsection (1) shall besubjected to any payments, dues, fees, levies or any othersimilar obligation that is due in terms of such laws orregulations. The amount permitted for transfer under thissection shall be the balance after deduction of the financialobligations referred to herein.

(3) The market rate of exchange published by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka prevailing on the date of transfer shall beapplicable for the purpose of this section and in the absenceof a market for foreign exchange, the rate to be used shall bethe most recent exchange rate for the conversions ofcurrencies into Special Drawing Rights.

(4) Without prejudice to the foregoing, the equitable,non-discriminatory and good faith actions and measurestaken to temporarily restrict the transfer of funds, out of SriLanka, shall not be interpreted to mean a violation of thissection, in the occurrence of the following events:-

(a)serious balance of payment difficulties;

(b)if movements of capital will cause seriousdifficulties for macroeconomic management;

(c)bankruptcy, insolvency or the protection of therights of the creditors;

(d)the issuing, trading or dealing with securities;

(e)criminal or penal offences and the recovery of theproceeds of crime; or

(f)ensuring the satisfaction of judgments inadjudicatory proceedings.

(5) The duration of the restrictions relating to transfer ofpayments stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection (4)shall be applied only for a period that is absolutely necessaryto remedy the balance of payments situation.

35Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

39. (1) No investment shall be expropriated ornationalized or no measures shall be taken having equivalenteffect of nationalization or expropriation (hereinafter referredto as expropriation) except in the public interest-

(a)on a non-discriminatory basis;

(b)on the principle of proportionality;

(c)in accordance with due process of law; and

(d)accompanied by expeditious payment of adequateand effective compensation.

(2) In the case of expropriation-

(a)compensation shall amount to fair market value ofthe investment expropriated on the day before theexpropriation or impending expropriation takesplace or became publicly known, whichever isearlier, and shall not reflect any change in valueoccurring because the intended expropriation hadbecome publicly known earlier. Valuation criteriashall be on the basis of going concern value, assetvalue including declared tax value of tangibleproperty, and other criteria, as appropriate, todetermine fair market value;

(b)if the market value cannot be ascertained, thecompensation shall be determined in taking intoaccount all relevant factors and circumstances, suchas the capital invested, the nature and duration ofthe investment, replacement and book value, inaccordance with fair market value as perinternational standard of valuation;

Expropriation

36Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(c)compensation shall be paid without delay, beeffectively realizable and freely transferable.Compensation shall be paid within six months fromthe date of expropriation. Until the timecompensation is paid, the investment can continueto operate.

(3) An investor affected by an expropriation shall havethe right to prompt review of its case, including the valuationof its investment and the payment of compensation inaccordance with the provisions of this section.

(4) Any non-discriminatory measures designed andapplied to protect legitimate public welfare objectives, suchas health, safety and the environment, shall not constituteexpropriation or nationalisation, except in the circumstancewhen the impact of a measure or series of measures is sosevere in light of its purpose that it appears manifestlyexcessive.

(5) In case of expropriations under the Land AcquisitionAct (Chapter 450), the payment of compensation shall be inaccordance with the provisions of that Act.

40. For the avoidance of doubt, none of the provisions insections 36, 37, 38 and 39 shall be deemed to grant pre-establishment rights to any foreign investor or investment.

41. (1) Foreign investors and their investments shallcomply with all laws, regulations, administrative guidelinesand policies in force in Sri Lanka, concerning theestablishment, acquisition, management, operation anddisposition of such investments.

(2) Foreign investors and their investments shall not,either prior to or after the establishment of an investment,

Pre-establishmentrights

Obligations offoreigninvestors

37Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

offer, promise, or give any undue pecuniary advantage,gratification or gift whatsoever, whether directly orindirectly, to an official in charge of investment, to a publicofficial or to any other person in a decision making capacitywith regard to its investment, or offer an inducement orreward for doing or forbearing to do any official act or obtainor maintain other improper advantage nor shall be complicitin inciting, aiding, abetting or conspiring to commit suchacts.

(3) Foreign investors and their investments shall complywith the laws, so long as they are applicable, concerningtaxation, including timely payment of their tax liabilities.

(4) Foreign investors shall provide such information,when called upon to do so by the authorities concerningtheir investment, for purposes of decision making in relationto that investment or for statistical purposes.

(5) Foreign investors and their investments shallendeavour to voluntarily incorporate internationallyrecognized standards of corporate social responsibility intheir practices and internal policies. These principles mayaddress issues such as labour, the environment, human rights,community relations and anti-corruption.

CHAPTER X

TRANSPARENCY AND DISPUTE SETTLEMENT

42. (1) (a) The Economic Commission shall endeavourto publish all laws, regulations, orders, rules and where legallypermissible, judgments and administrative rules on a singlewebsite to provide investors with easy access to suchinformation and material.

Transparency

38Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b) Where possible, the Economic Commission mayconsult with and provide investors with an opportunity tomake representations on proposed regulations, rules,directions or orders which affect their rights as investors.

(2) Where any administrative proceedings are initiatedagainst any investor or investment, all the rights, proceduresand due processes afforded to any citizen under the law inrespect of such proceedings shall be afforded to the investor.

43. (1) The Economic Commission shall by itself orthrough its agencies, set up a Grievance Committee to whicha foreign investor may refer any grievance arising from anydispute, difference, disagreement or any matter between theforeign investor and the State (relating to the foreigninvestment) for settlement through a consultative process.The Economic Commission shall, by way of rules made underthis Part, formulate provisions for the composition andprocedures for such purpose including stipulation of theresponsibilities of the Grievance Committee.

(2) The Grievance Committee and the authorities shallmake their best efforts to resolve foreign investors grievancesamicably and in a consultative manner.

(3) The Grievance Committee may contact the parties inquestion and the competent administrative authorities torequest clarifications, documents and answers to the inquiriesit sees necessary, and it may draw on the diverse expertiseand specializations available to the Economic Commissionand to other administrative authorities.

44. (1) Investment disputes under this Part shall be settledpromptly and amicably through consultations andnegotiations between the parties.

Prevention ofdisputes betweenforeign investorsand State

Disputesettlement

39Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Where an amicable solution cannot be reached, anyinvestor shall have the right to use all other remedies underthe laws of Sri Lanka:

Provided that, where the dispute relates to one betweena foreign investor and the State, the parties may agree toseek settlement of disputes, through alternate disputeresolution mechanisms including ad hoc arbitration andinstitutional arbitration.

(3) If any award is made by a foreign arbitral tribunal,such award shall be recognized and enforceable in Sri Lankain accordance with the laws of Sri Lanka including theArbitration Act, No. 11 of 1995.

(4) For the purposes of this section, parties means theinvestor and any Government institution, an investor hasdealings with in respect of his investment.

CHAPTER XI

INCENTIVES

45. The Economic Commission may recommendincentives and exemptions from the laws specified in theSchedule to this part to be granted to investments, from timeto time. Such incentives and exemptions shall becomeapplicable upon the Minister prescribing the same byregulations made under this Part:

Provided however, that investments shall remain eligiblefor all incentives and exemptions as may be generallyprovided under any other applicable law.

Incentives andexemptions

40Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

CHAPTER XII

SPECIAL POWERS OF THE ECONOMIC COMMISSION

46. (1) Where an investor that applies to the EconomicCommission or an investment registered with the EconomicCommission requires any approvals, authorizations orpermits from Ministries, Government departments, agencies,corporations, regulatory authorities or bodies named by theCabinet of Ministers on the recommendation of the Ministerand prescribed by regulations made under this Part(hereinafter referred to as Specified Institutions) theEconomic Commission shall be empowered to facilitate theprocurement of such approvals, authorizations or permits.

(2) Where the Economic Commission makes an inquiryor request to any Specified Institution for an approval,authorization, or permit in terms of subsection (1), suchSpecified Institution shall be obliged to respond to suchinquiry or request either consenting to or objecting to suchinquiry or request within fifteen days of such inquiry orrequest being made. If the Specified Institution refuses torespond to such inquiry or denies such request, writtenreasons for such refusal or denial shall be provided in writingwithin such period of twenty one days of such inquiry orrequest.

(3) All Specified Institutions shall be required tocollaborate with the Economic Commission to enable it toperform its functions and meet its objects.

(4) The Minister may, by regulations made under thisPart, prescribe procedures for such collaboration, which shallbe complied with by Specified Institutions in line withstanding operating procedures on granting approvals forinvestment projects formulated by the Economic Commissionthrough a consultative process.

Special powersof the EconomicCommission forexpeditingapprovals

41Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(5) If a Specified Institution refuses, denies or fails torespond to an inquiry or request as per the regulations madeunder subsection (1) or (4), the Economic Commission shallif deemed appropriate, refer such refusal, denial or failure tothe Minister forthwith, who shall, within two weeeks referthe matter to the Cabinet of Ministers for appropriate action.

47. (1) The Economic Commission may call upon anyGovernment agency, local authority, body, authority orperson to furnish information, details, documents andparticulars as may be required by the Economic Commissionin connection with or regarding any matters in relation tothe discharge of its functions under this Part. AnyGovernment agency, local authority, body, authority orperson to which such a request is made shall be required tofurnish such information to the Economic Commissionwithout delay.

(2) The Economic Commission shall have the power tocoordinate with any government agency, local authority,body, authority or person to monitor the status of foreigninvestments in Sri Lanka.

CHAPTER XIII

ESTABLISHMENT OF INVEST SRI LANKA

48. (1) The Economic Commission shall establish an entitywhich shall be called the Invest Sri Lanka to beincorporated under the Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007.

(2) The Invest Sri Lanka shall be governed by a Board ofDirectors (hereinafter referred to as the Invest SL Board)consisting of not less than three and not more than fivemembers appointed by the Economic Commission.

Power to call forinformation

Establishment ofInvest Sri Lanka

42Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) The Chairperson of the Invest SL Board shall beappointed by the Economic Commission from amongst themembers of the Invest SL Board.

(4) (a) The Chief Executive Officer of Invest Sri Lankashall be appointed by the Economic Commission who alsoshall be the Accounting Officer.

(b) The day-to-day management of Invest Sri Lanka shallbe vested in the Chief Executive Officer and the ChiefExecutive Officer shall be responsible for implementingpolicies and programs and for managing staff and resources.The qualifications, remuneration, allowances and terms andconditions of employment of the Chief Executive Officershall be as may be decided by the Invest SL Board from timeto time.

(5) All expenses including salaries of the staff of InvestSri Lanka shall be allocated by the Economic Commission.

(6) The Minister may, on the recommendation of theEconomic Commission, make regulations as may benecessary from time to time to supplement the operationalprocedures for Invest Sri Lanka.

49. The Invest SL Board shall have the power-

(a)to request and obtain from any Government agency,local authority or any other body or authority orperson any information, details, documents andparticulars as may be required by Invest Sri Lankain connection with or in relation to any investment,which such government agency, local authority orbody or authority or person shall furnish to the InvestSL Board without any delay or default;

Powers of theInvest SL Board

43Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)to coordinate with Government departments to trackand compile the status of significant projects offoreign investments and economic development inSri Lanka;

(c)to appoint Advisory Councils as it deems fit to assistit in the exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions;

(d)to appoint any committee consisting of such personsas it may think fit and delegate such powers as itmay determine necessary. Every committeeappointed under this paragraph shall conform toany directions that may, from time to time, be givento it by the Invest SL Board and the said Invest SLBoard may at any time alter the constitution of anycommittee so appointed or rescind any suchappointment;

(e)to appoint skilled persons, experts and consultantsas it deems necessary at competitive market rates asit may consider necessary for the performance anddischarge of the duties and functions of Invest SriLanka; and

(f)to generally do such other acts or things necessaryto perform and discharge the duties and functionsspecified in section 50 and to promote and facilitateinvestment opportunities in Sri Lanka.

50. The duties and functions of the Invest SL Board shallbe-

(a)to identify investment opportunities in Sri Lanka;

(b)to promote Sri Lanka as an investment destination;

Duties andfunctions ofInvest SL Board

44Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(c)to provide information and guidance to potentialinvestors on matters which shall include inter alia,the investment climate, laws and regulations, andbusiness opportunities;

(d)to facilitate the establishment, retention andexpansion of investments by providing assistancewith regulatory approvals, permits and licences;

(e)to connect potential investors with local businessesand partners;

(f)to represent the countrys interests in internationalinvestment fora and conferences;

(g)to promote collaboration between the Government,the private sector, and the investment community;

(h)to implement national investment promotionstrategies; and

(i)to coordinate with other Government agencieswhich would be necessary for the purpose ofinvestment promotion.

CHAPTER XIV

GENERAL PROVISIONS

51. All members of the EC Board, EC Director Generaland the officers and other employees of the EconomicCommission, all members of the Invest SL Board shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning, and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

Members,officers andother employeesof the EconomicCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants

45Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

52. The Economic Commission shall be deemed to be ascheduled institution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of thatAct shall be construed accordingly.

53. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst any members of the EC Board, EC Director General,officer or employee of the Economic Commission or anymember of the Invest SL Board, for any act which in goodfaith is done or purported to be done by him under this Actor on the directions of the Economic Commission or the ECBoard, as the case may be, if he proves that he acted in goodfaith and exercised all due diligence, reasonable care andskill.

54. (1) Any expense incurred by the EconomicCommission in any suit or prosecution brought by or againstthe Economic Commission before any Court, shall be paidout of the EC Fund and any costs paid to, or recovered bythe Economic Commission in any such suit or prosecutionshall be credited to the EC Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member of the EC Board,EC Director General, officer or employee of the EconomicCommission or any member of the Invest SL Board in anysuit or prosecution brought against such person before anycourt or tribunal in respect of any act which is done or ispurported to be done by such person under the provisions ofthis Act or on the direction of the Economic Commissionshall, if the court holds that such act was done in good faith,be paid out of the EC, Fund unless such expense is recoveredby such person in such suit or prosecution.

55. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the ECBoard, make regulations in respect of all matters which arerequired by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are authorized to be made.

EconomicCommissiondeemed to be ascheduledinstitution

Protection foraction takenunder this Act

Expenses in suitor prosecutionto be paid out ofthe EC Fund

Regulations

46Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the provisions contained in subsection (1), the Ministermay, in consultation with the EC Board, make regulationsin regard to

(a)determine the scope and extent of any exemptionor modification of any of the written laws set out inthe Schedule to this Part which may be required forthe attainment of the objects of this Part especiallyfor the promotion and facilitation of foreign directinvestments;

(b)provide for any matter which is deemed necessaryto implement the provisions of this Part includingbut not limited to-

(i)specifying the procedure for investmentpromotion, facilitation and after careactivities through the creation of legal entitiesand otherwise;

(ii)specifying the manner and procedure for thegoods and services to be brought into orbrought out of any declared investment zone,licensed enterprises or registered enterprises;

(iii)specifying the procedure for the promotionof international trade;

(iv)specifying the procedure for staff and all othermatters connected thereto in respect of section48:

Provided however, regulations shall notbe made under this section providing termsand conditions less favourable than the termsand conditions of employment to which theofficers and employees of the BOI holding

47Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

office on the day immediately preceding theappointed date were entitled;

(v)specifying the fees and charges to be leviedfor any services provided under this Part;

(vi)specifying the categories and criteria ofregistration and licensing under this Part;

(vii)allocation of such staff to the EconomicCommission and they shall be deemed to beemployed by the Economic Commission witheffect from the date of such regulation; and

(viii)require all foreign investments falling underthe repealed Board of Investment of Sri LankaLaw, No. 4 of 1978 to register with theEconomic Commission within a periodspecified in the regulations made under thissection.

(3) Every regulation made under this section shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made under this section shall, withinthree months from the date of its publication in the Gazette,be placed before Parliament for approval. Every regulationwhich is not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

48Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

56. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the EconomicCommission may make rules in respect of all matters whichrules are authorized to be made under this Part.

(2) Every rule made by the Economic Commission shallbe published in the Gazette and shall come into operationupon such publication.

57. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to theprovisions of this Part, the Minister may, in consultationwith the EC Board, by Order published in the Gazette, makeprovisions which are not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Part, or any other written law, as appears to the Ministerto be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty:

Provided that, no such Order shall be made after the expiryof a period of five years from the date of coming into operationof this Part.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall, withinthree months after it is made, be laid before Parliament forapproval and such Order shall become operative only uponreceipt of the approval therefor of Parliament.

58. In case of any inconsistency between the provisionsof this Part and provisions of any other law relating toinvestments or the promotion of international trade orinvestment zones the provisions of this Part shall prevail.

59. (1) In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-

foreign investment means an investment made bya foreign investor as an investor in terms of thisPart;

foreign investor means a natural person or anenterprise recognized as a legal entity by theapplicable laws of a foreign country, that has madean investment in Sri Lanka in terms of this Part;

Rules

Removal ofdifficulties

This part toprevail

Interpretation

49Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

investor means a natural person or an enterpriserecognized as a legal entity by the applicablelaws, that has made an investment in Sri Lanka interms of this Part;

investment means every kind of asset that aninvestor owns or controls, directly or indirectly,that has the characteristics of an investment,which includes the commitment of capital orother resources for a certain duration, theexpectation of gain or profit, or the assumptionof risk including-

(a)an enterprise;

(b)shares, stock, and other forms of equityparticipation in an enterprise other thanan investment made on a securities orstock exchange;

(c)bonds, debentures, loans and other debtinstruments of an enterprise;

(d)turnkey, construction, management,production, concession, revenue-sharing and other similar contracts;

(e)claims to money or to other assets or toany contractual performance having aneconomic value associated with aninvestment;

(f)intellectual property rights inaccordance with the relevant domesticlaws;

(g)licences, authorizations, permits andsimilar rights conferred pursuant toapplicable domestic law; or

50Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(h)other tangible or intangible, movableor immovable property, and relatedproperty rights, such as leases,mortgages, liens and pledges,

but does not include-

(i)an asset which lacks thecharacteristics of an investment,regardless of the form it may take;

(ii)a donation; and

(iii)an order or judgment entered in ajudicial or administrative action.

Investment Zones shall mean export processing zones,industrial parks, special economic zones and othersimilar areas for the establishment of investments,whether declared under this Part or any other lawreferred to in this enactment and shall includelicensed zones as referred to in the repealed Law;

registered enterprise means an enterprise approved orregistered as the case may be under paragraph (h) ofsection 13;

return means an amount yielded by or derived from aninvestment, including profits, dividends, interest,capital gains, royalty payments, payments inconnection with intellectual property rights, andall other lawful income;

Specified Institution means any of the entities named byregulations made under section 46.

(2)For the purpose of this Part-

51Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a) loans and other debt instruments and claims tomoney or to any contractual performancerefer to assets which relate to a businessactivity associated with an investment anddo not refer to assets which are of a personalnature, unrelated to any business activityassociated with an investment;

(b) claims to money do not include-

(i)claims to money that arise solely fromcommercial contracts for the sale ofgoods or services;

(ii)the domestic financing of suchcontracts; or

(iii) any order, judgment or arbitral awardrelated to sub paragraph (i) or (ii).

SCHEDULE

(sections 45 and 55)

1.Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)

2.Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007

3.Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

4.Finance Act, No. 18 of 2021

5.Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017

6.National Film Corporation of Sri Lanka Act, No. 47 of

1971

7.Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971

52Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

8.Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

9.Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969

10.National Water Supply and Drainage Board Law, No. 2 of

1974

11.Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

12.Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act, No. 28 of 1961

PART III

CHAPTER XV

APPLICATION OF THIS PART

60. (1) The provisions of this Part shall apply toinvestment zones in Sri Lanka.

(2) The provisions of this Part shall not apply to theColombo Port City Special Economic Zone established undersection 2 of the Colombo Port City Economic CommissionAct, No. 11 of 2021.

CHAPTER XVI

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INVESTMENT ZONES SRI LANKA

61. (1) There shall be established an entity called theInvestment Zones Sri Lanka (in this Act referred to as theZones SL).

(2) The Zones SL shall, by the name assigned to it undersubsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual successionand a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

Application ofthis Part

Establishment ofInvestmentZones Sri Lanka

53Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

62. (1) The Zones SL shall have its principal office in SriLanka and may establish any office or other representationwithin or outside Sri Lanka.

(2) The Zones SL may establish such number ofadministrative units within the Zones SL as may be requiredfor the efficient exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions in terms of this Part.

63. (1) The Zones SL shall in the performance anddischarge of its duties and functions, exercise the followingpowers: -

(a)to conduct studies it deems necessary to decide onthe need for the creation or expansion of investmentzones;

(b)to make recommendations to the EconomicCommission on the need for or expansion ofinvestment zones;

(c)to operate and manage investment zones on behalfof the Government of Sri Lanka in accordance withthe provisions of this Part and create the necessaryinfrastructure containing state of the art facilitiesfor investments located therein including roads,electric power, water supply, housing and such otherfacilities and amenities as required and implementsuch concessions and exercise such powers anddischarge such functions as delegated to it by theEconomic Commission under this Act;

(d)to carry out detailed studies for the economicdevelopment projects through investment zones;

(e)to establish and enhance the cooperation betweeninter agencies of every Ministry, department,Provincial Council, Provincial Ministry and

Principal officeand thedepartmentsunder the ZonesSL

Powers of theZones SL

54Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

department and local authority and other personsor body of persons whether private or public incarrying out studies and implementation ofinvestment zones and special development areas;

(f)to supervise and regulate the management ofinvestment zones;

(g)to make recommendations to the Minister onmaking regulations in relation to the supervision,regulation, operation or management of theinvestment zones;

(h)to cause to prepare an environmental impactassessment report in respect of any economicdevelopment projects, plans, programmes ofschemes within the investment zones or specialdevelopment areas;

(i)to make recommendations to the Minister on policymatters on all aspects of declaration, approval orestablishment, operation, management, supervisionand regulation of investment zones declared andmanaged under this Part;

(j)to ensure every investment zone maintains anenvironment for promoting investments therebyenhancing the employment opportunities;

(k)to hold shares in a public-private partnership entityestablished for the purpose of developing andmanaging the designated economic developmentzone;

(l)to impose or levy a charge for the services renderedby the Zones SL within the designated investmentzones;

55Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(m)to appoint investment zone developer for eachinvestment zone declared under this Part and todevelop and manage the acquired land and differenttype of infrastructure thereof;

(n)to allot land, building or site, on commercial basisin prescribed manner, to investors applied forestablishing investment zones and serviceproviders in investment zones;

(o)to ensure infrastructure development of investmentzones within specified period through monitoringof activities of its own and of economic zonedevelopers;

(p)to create opportunities for employment bypromoting local and foreign investment includingdevelopment of skilled labour force;

(q)to encourage more efficient management andmonitor programmes for implementingcommitments on environment and other matters;

(r)to purchase, take and hold any property, movableor immovable, which may become vested in it andto sell, mortgage, lease, convey, devise, assign,exchange or dispose of any such movable orimmovable property;

(s)to enter into any agreements as it deems fit withany party for the purpose of setting up theinvestment zones or any part or facilities withinsuch investment zones;

(t)to enter into lease agreements with investorsapproved for location within the investment zones;

56Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(u)to enter into sales, supply or lease or managementagreements in respect of investment locations withininvestment zones;

(v)to enter into agreements with other institutions oragencies to receive bulk supply, store, recoup orregenerate all utilities, including electricity, water,fuel and other energy sources and distribute toentities located within a specific investment zone,and charge for such utilities as appropriate, subjectto compliance with industry accepted safety andenvironmental standards;

(w)to levy and recover any fees, charges or otherpayments in respect of lease, rents and otherfacilities provided by the Zones SL within theinvestment zones;

(x)to employ such officers and staff includingconsultants and advisors subject to such terms andconditions as the Zones SL may consider appropriateto enable it to discharge its functions under thisPart;

(y)to invest its funds in such manner as the Zones SLmay deem necessary including the opening,operation and closing of bank accounts;

(z)to receive grants, gifts or donations whether fromlocal or foreign sources:

(aa)to give special or general directives to any personsor entity for the purpose of discharging its objectsand functions as set out above;

(ab)to establish Special Purpose Vehicles at the zonelevel or by amalgamating several investment zonesand also exit the investment if required to theprivate sector;

57Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(ac)to establish necessary social infrastructuredevelopments including accommodation forworkers within investment zones;

(ad)to appoint experts or consultants as deemednecessary, to discharge its functions prudently; and

(ae)to do any other acts as may be necessary or conduciveto the attainment of the objects and discharge offunctions of the Zones SL under this Part.

(2) Any land within any zone declared undersubsection (1) of section 15 may be alienated or leased toany body-corporate for developing an investment zone toachieve the objects of the Zones SL and in accordance withany plans, programmes or schemes made under this Part.

(3) The Zones SL may, subject to any written law,undertake or approve the development, operation andmaintenance and the financial assistance for appropriateinfrastructure up to the perimeter of such designatedinvestment zone.

(4) For the purpose of this section Special PurposeVehicles means a company incorporated under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007.

64. The duties and functions of the Zones SL shall be-

(a)to conduct studies on the need for investment zonesto facilitate the national policies on investment,international trade, exports and investment zonesformulated by the Economic Commission;

(b)to identify and select sites for the establishment ofinvestment zones;

Duties andfunctions of theZones SL

58Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(c)to recommend such investment zones to the

Economic Commission for obtaining approval of

the Cabinet of Ministers to proceed with their

establishment;

(d)to manage and operate such investment zones

whether directly or through any partnership, joint

venture or management agreement or any other

arrangement approved by the Economic

Commission;

(e)to exercise any of the powers of granting approvals

and authorizations under the laws and regulations

as provided for herein;

(f)to cooperate with and liaise with any Governmental

authority as may be necessary for facilitating the

operations of and within the investment zones; and

(g)to do all such other acts as may be necessary or

conducive to the attainment of any or all of the

above objects.

CHAPTER XVII

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE ZONES SL

65. (1) The administration and management of the affairs

of the Zones SL shall be vested in a Board (in this Partreferred to as the Zones SL Board).

Composition ofthe Zones SLBoard

59Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The Zones SL Board shall, for the purpose ofadministering and managing the affairs of the Zones SL,exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions conferred, assigned or imposed on Zones SL, bythis Part or delegated to it by the Economic Commissionunder Part II for the purpose of administering the affairs ofthe Zones SL.

(3) The Zones SL Board shall consist of not more thanseven members comprising of -

(a)the following ex officio members: -

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance or hisnominee, who shall be an officer not belowthe rank of a Deputy Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministeror his nominee, who shall be an officer notbelow the rank of a Deputy Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister;

(iii)the Chairman of the Urban DevelopmentAuthority established under the UrbanDevelopment Authority Law, No. 41 of 1978or his nominee who shall be an officer notbelow the rank of a Director General of aDepartment of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance; and

(iv)the Chief Executive Officer of the EconomicCommission; and

60Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)four persons having knowledge, expertise andexperience and national or internationalrecognition in the fields of either management,investment, finance, law, information technology,manufacturing or business, appointed by theMinister on the recommendation of the EconomicCommission.

66. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with theEconomic Commission, appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairperson of the Zones SL Board.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from the office of theChairperson by letter in that behalf addressed to the Ministerand such resignation shall be effective from the date onwhich it is accepted in writing by the Minister.

(3) The Minister may, for reasons assigned thereforremove the Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and(3), the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the periodof his term of office as a member of the Zones SL Board.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office due to ill health, otherinfirmity, absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less thanthree months or any other cause, the Minister may appointany other appointed member to act as the Chairperson, inaddition to his normal duties.

67. A person appointed to the Zones SL Board shall bedisqualified from being appointed or nominated or fromcontinuing as a member of the Zones SL Board if such person-

(a)is, or becomes a Member of Parliament, or a memberof any Provincial Council or any local authority;

Disqualificationsfor being amember of theZones SL Board

Chairperson ofthe Zones SLBoard

61Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b) is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d) is a person who, having been declared as insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orany other country is an undischarged insolvent orbankrupt;

(e)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any other country;

(f)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or in behalf of the Zones SL;

(g)has any financial or other interest direct or indirectas is likely to affect prejudicially the exercise,performance and discharge by such person of hispowers, duties and functions as a member of theZones SL Board; or

(h)has been previously removed from office.

68. Every appointed member of the Zones SL Board shall,unless such person vacates office earlier by death, resignationor removal, hold office for a period of three years from thedate of appointment, and unless removed from office shallbe eligible for re-appointment for not more than one furtherterm, whether consecutive or otherwise.

69. (1) Any appointed member of the Zones SL Boardmay, at any time, resign from his office by letter in thatbehalf addressed to the Minister, and such resignation shalltake effect from the date on which the resignation is acceptedin writing by the Minister.

Term of office

Removal,resignation &c.of appointedmembers

62Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The Minister may remove any appointed member ofthe Zones SL Board, from office-

(a)by written notice, if such person becomes incapableof effectively performing the duties of office due toill health or incapacitation; or

(b)being satisfied, upon consideration ofrepresentations made, that such person is guilty offraud, grave misconduct or gross negligence, orbeing incapable of effectively dischargingresponsibilities vested on such person (includingregular non-attendance of meetings) which warrantsremoval from office with immediate effect.

(3) A member shall be disqualified from continuing as amember of the Zones SL Board if such person absents himselffrom three consecutive meetings of the Zones SL Board orone third of the meetings for any calendar year without beingexcused for such absence by the Zones SL Board.

(4) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal from office of any appointed memberof the Zones SL Board, the Minister shall, having regard tothe provisions of sections 65 and 67, appoint another personto fill such vacancy. Such person shall hold office for theun-expired period of the term of office of the member whomhe succeeds, and unless removed from office, shall be eligiblefor re-appointment for not more than one further term,whether consecutive or otherwise.

70. (1) Any member of the Zones SL Board who has adirect or indirect interest in any person, company, investmentor any other matter involving the exercise of discretion ofthe Zones SL Board or its vote or direction, shall forthwithinform the Chief Executive Officer of the Zones SL in writingof the nature and extent of such interest and such disclosure

Conflicts ofinterest

63Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

shall be duly recorded at meetings of the Zones SL Boardwhere such matters are discussed. Such member shall notparticipate at any meeting at which such matters arediscussed or vote on any decision which directly or indirectlyrelates to such interest.

(2) If any member of the Zones SL Board fails or neglectsto declare a conflict of interest as set out in subsection (1),such member shall be subject to disqualification from beinga member of the Zones SL Board.

71. (1) The meetings of the Zones SL Board shall be heldat least once in three months or as is required for the purposeof exercising, performing and discharging the powers, dutiesand functions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to theZones SL Board by this Part.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Zones SL Boardshall be five members.

(3) A meeting of the Zones SL Board may be held either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute thequorum being assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting thequorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.

(4) All questions for decision at any meeting of theZones SL Board shall be decided by the vote of the majorityof members present and voting at such meeting. In the caseof an equality of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition tohis vote, have a casting vote.

Meetingprocedures

64Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(5) The Chairperson, if present, shall preside at everymeeting of the Zones SL Board. In the absence of theChairperson from any meeting of the Zones SL Board, anymember elected by the members present shall preside at suchmeeting of the Zones SL Board.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Zones SL Board may regulate the procedure to befollowed for the summoning and holding of meetings of theZones SL Board and the transaction of business at suchmeetings.

72. The Zones SL Board may act notwithstanding anyvacancy among its members, and any act or proceeding ofthe Zones SL Board shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid byreason only of the existence of any vacancy among itsmembers or any defect in the appointment of a memberthereof.

73. The Chairperson and the members of the Zones SLBoard shall be paid such remuneration in such manner andat such rates as may be determined by the Minister, with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

74. (1) The seal of the Zones SL shall be as determined bythe Zones SL Board.

(2) The seal of the Zones SL

(a)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Zones SL Board; and

(b)shall be in the custody of such person orpersons as the Zones SL Board maydetermine from time to time.

Acts orproceedings ofthe Zones SLBoard deemednot to be invalidby reason of anyvacancy

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe Zones SLBoard

Seal of the

Zones SL

65Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) The seal of the Zones SL shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of the ZonesSL Board and in the presence of the Chairperson and oneother member of the Zones SL Board who shall sign theinstrument or document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to bepresent at the time when seal of the Zones SL is affixed toany instrument or document, any other member of the ZonesSL Board authorized in writing by the Chairperson on thatbehalf shall be competent to sign such instrument ordocument in accordance with the preceding provision ofthis subsection.

(4) The Zones SL Board shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the ZonesSL has been affixed.

CHAPTER XVIII

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND STAFF OF THE ZONES SL

75. (1) There shall be a Chief Executive Officer of theZones SL (hereinafter referred to as the Zones SL ChiefExecutive Officer) appointed by the Zones SL Board, inconsultation with the Economic Commission, who shall bethe Accounting Officer of Zones SL.

(2) The qualifications and experience of the person whoshall be appointed as the Chief Executive Officer of ZonesSL and the terms and conditions of employment of the ChiefExecutive Officer of Zones SL shall be as prescribed byregulation.

(3) The Zones SL Chief Executive Officer shall, subjectto the general or special directions and control of the ZonesSL Board

Chief ExecutiveOfficer of ZonesSL

66Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Zones SL including the administration andcontrol of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Zones SL Board; and

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Zones SL Board.

(4) The Zones SL Chief Executive Officer shall beentitled to be present and speak at any meeting of the ZonesSL Board, but shall not be entitled to vote at such meeting.

(5) The Zones SL Board may delegate such of its powers,duties and functions under this Part, as it may determine,either to the Zones SL Chief Executive Officer or to anyofficer of the Zones SL and the Zones SL Chief ExecutiveOfficer or such employee of the Zones SL shall exercise,perform and discharge such delegated powers, duties andfunctions, subject to the direction and supervision of theZones SL.

(6) The Zones SL Chief Executive Officer may, with theapproval of the Zones SL Board, delegate in writing to anyadministrative unit or officer or employee of the Zones SL,such of the powers, duties or functions of the Zones SL ChiefExecutive Officer as may be considered necessary from timeto time, and any such administrative unit, officer or employeeto whom any such powers, duties or functions are delegated,shall be responsible for the same, and shall exercise, performand discharge them subject to the direction and supervisionof the Zones SL Board or the Zones SL Chief ExecutiveOfficer.

67Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(7) The Zones SL Chief Executive Officer shall beresponsible and answerable to the Zones SL Board in theexercise, performance and discharge of his powers, dutiesand functions under this Part.

(8) The Zones SL Board may, in consultation with theEconomic Commission, and subject to the provisions ofsubsection (9), remove the Zones SL Chief Executive Officerfrom office-

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b)if he has done any act which, in the opinion of theZones SL Board, is of a fraudulent or illegalcharacter or is prejudicial to the interests of theZones SL; or

(c)if he has failed to comply with any directions issuedby the Zones SL Board.

(9) Prior to being removed under subsection (8), theZones SL Chief Executive Officer shall be issued a notice inwriting to show cause as to why he should not be removedfrom office and be given an opportunity of being heardagainst any allegations made against him.

(10) The office of the Zones SL Chief Executive Officershall become vacant upon the death, removal from officeunder subsection (8) or resignation by letter in that behalfaddressed to the Minister by the holder of that office.

(11) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the Zones SLChief Executive Officer, the Zones SL Board may, inconsultation with the Economic Commission, appoint anappointed member of the Zones SL Board to exercise,

68Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions ofthe Zones SL Chief Executive Officer until an appointmentis made under subsection (1).

(12) The Zones SL Chief Executive Officer shall bepaid such remuneration as may be determined by the ZonesSL Board, in consultation with the Economic Commission.

76. (1) The Zones SL may create cadre positions andemploy officers and employees as it considers necessary forthe efficient discharge of its functions for the purposes ofcarrying out its duties and functions under the provisions ofthis Part.

(2) The Zones SL Board may, in respect of the officersand employees employed under subsection (1)

(a)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Finance;

(c)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees; and

(d)implement a code of conduct which shall beapplicable to such officers and employees.

(3) The Zones SL Board may make rules in respect ofall or any of the matters referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The Zones SL shall promote and sponsor thetraining of technical personnel on the subjects of zonemanagement and operation and other related subjects and

Staff of theZones SL

69Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

for this purpose, the Zones SL shall be authorized to defraythe costs of study, in Sri Lanka or abroad of such officers.

(5)The Zones SL shall not appoint any person to itsstaff, if such person-

(a)has been previously found guilty of a crime or anact of serious misconduct by a civil court or tribunalor has been subject to proceedings for a regulatory,code of conduct or related violation by a regulatorin Sri Lanka or abroad; or

(b)has committed a breach of the provisions of thisPart or regulations, rules or directives madethereunder.

77. (1) At the request of the Zones SL any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of the officer and thePublic Service Commission be temporarily appointed to theZones SL for such period as may be determined by the ZonesSL or with like consent, be permanently appointed to suchstaff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service istemporarily appointed to the staff of the Zones SL, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service ispermanently appointed to the staff of the Zones SL, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Zones SL employs any person who has

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe Zones SL

70Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

entered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Zones SL by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government, for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

CHAPTER XIX

FINANCE

78. The Zones SL Board shall be charged with thefinancial management of the Zones SL and the due operationand management of the Fund established in terms ofsection 79.

79. (1) The Zones SL shall have its own Fund (in this Partreferred to as the Zones SL Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Zones SL Fund-

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament for the use of the Zones SL;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theZones SL through the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions eitherdirectly or through entities created by it under thisPart;

(c)all such sums of money as may be paid as fees underthe provisions of this Part; and

(d)all such sums of money received as developmentassistance from foreign Governments or agenciesand from multilateral and bilateral agencies whetherwithin or outside Sri Lanka:

Financialmanagement ofthe Zones SL

Fund of theZones SL

71Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Provided however, the Zones SL shall obtainprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources, in respect of all foreign assistancereceived under this paragraph.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Zones SL Fund-

(a) all such sums as are required to defray expenditureincurred by the Zones SL in the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Part or under any other writtenlaw; and

(b)up to ten per centum of the fees charged by theZones SL to issue any licence under this Part, asmay be determined by the Economic Commissionunder paragraph (m) of section 13.

(4) Monies belonging to the Zones SL Fund may beinvested by the Zones SL in such manner as may bedetermined by the Zones SL Board.

80. (1) The financial year of the Zones SL shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Zones SL shall cause proper books of accounts tobe kept of the income, expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other financial transactions of the Zones SL.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of accounts of the Zones SL.

(4) The Zones SL Board shall submit the auditedstatement of accounts together with the auditors report tothe Minister to be tabled in Parliament.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts of theZones SL

72Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

CHAPTER XX

SITE SELECTION & C. OF INVESTMENT ZONES

81. (1) The Zones SL Board shall, in consultation withthe Economic Commission, conduct studies on therequirements for investment zones to facilitate theaccomplishment of the goals in the national policies oninvestment, international trade, exports and investment zonesformulated by the Economic Commission.

(2) The Zones SL Board shall make recommendationsto the Economic Commission for the establishment ofinvestment zones based on findings of its studies. Suchrecommendations shall -

(a)the business justification for the establishment ofany investment zones;

(b)site selection and location;

(c)proposed sectors of activity which should betargeted, promoted and established within suchinvestment zones;

(d)the approvals and authorizations which shall berequired for the establishment and operation ofinvestments within such investment zones;

(e)any incentives or exemptions which may need tobe granted to investors to establish within suchinvestment zones;

(f)any ancillary support services which may berequired from the Government or any localauthorities or agencies for the purpose of providing

Site selectionandestablishment ofInvestmentZones

73Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

institutional framework and physical infrastructureto enable such investment zones to operatesmoothly and efficiently;

(g)the method of operating and managing suchinvestment zones, whether directly by the ZonesSL or as joint ventures with any other partyincluding private parties, or on the basis ofmanagement agreements;

(h)any charges or levies that may levied or imposedon any users within such investment zones; and

(i)any other matters which may be relevant to theestablishment and operation of such investmentzones.

(3) Upon the Cabinet of Ministers approving theestablishment of an investment zone, the Minister shallprocure the vesting of such site to the Zones SL havingacquired the proposed site under the Land Acquisition Act(Chapter 450) or by the grant or lease thereof under theCrown Lands Act (Chapter 454) as the case may require.

(4) Any land vested in terms of subsection (3) in theZones SL shall be deemed to be for a public purpose.

82. The Zones SL shall be responsible for establishingthe investment zones ensuring inter alia the following: -

(a)making appropriate arrangements for creating thenecessary regulatory, institutional and physicalinfrastructure for the operation of the investmentzone, including but not limited to the preparationof site plans, supply of utilities and other

Establishment ofinvestmentzones

74Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

infrastructural services required for the purpose offacilitating the operations of investments which willbe located within the investment zone;

(b)obtaining pre-clearances and approvals from allrelevant authorities which have continued powersover the activities of the investment zone;

(c)ensuring that rules and procedures for the operationof the activities are duly adopted by the Ministerby way of regulations;

(d)entering into agreements as may be deemednecessary for the establishment, operation andmanagement of the investment zone whether suchparties are public or private individuals or entities;and

(e)formulating schemes for the levy or charge of anyservices which may be provided to any person withinthe investment zones.

83. The Zones SL Board shall, in consultation with theEconomic Commission, determine the structure within whicheach investment zone shall be operated and managed.Without limiting the discretion of the Zones SL Board andthe Economic Commission, such investment zones may bemanaged by the Zones SL Board, or as joint ventures withthird parties, (whether local or foreign), or on the basis ofmanagement agreements.

84. (1) An investment zones developer or operator shallhave the right to-

Operation andmanagement ofinvestmentzones

Rights andobligations ofinvestmentzones developeror operator

75Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)act or appoint, with the concurrence of the ZonesSL, an operator to undertake management andadministration of the investment zone on its behalfsubject to such regulations and other licensingrequirements as may be prescribed;

(b)lease or sublease land or buildings to licensedinvestment zone operators and enterprises andcharge rent or fees for other services that may beprovided;

(c)acquire investment zone lands or other assets;

(d)develop, operate and service investment zoneslands and other assets in conformity with applicableregulations and laws and its licences;

(e)provide utilities and other services in theinvestment zone, in accordance with its licence andto charge fees for such services;

(f) provide utilities and other services outside theinvestment zone in conformity with applicablewritten law;

(g)enter into contracts with private third parties forthe development, operation and servicing ofinvestment zone lands and other assets, includingon-site and off-site infrastructure;

(h)enter and freely participate in internationalfinancial markets, without any legal impedimentsor restrictions to obtain funds, credits, guarantees,and other financial resources; and

(i)advertise and promote the investment zone forwhich it holds a licence to potential investors andservice providers.

76Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) An investment zone developer shall, in such manneras may be prescribed-

(a)perform such physical development works or makesuch improvements to the investment zone site andits facilities as may be required according to theplans approved by the Zones SL;

(b)provide adequate enclosures to segregate the zonearea from the customs territory for the protection ofrevenue together with suitable provisions for themovement of persons, conveyances, vessel andgoods entering or leaving the zone;

(c)provide or cause to be provided adequate securityon the site, as may be determined by the Zones SLin its licence;

(d)adopt and enforce regulations within theinvestment zone that promote safe and efficientbusiness operations;

(e)maintain adequate and proper accounts and otherrecords in relation to its activities, employmentstatistics, business and report on zone activities,performance and development to the Zones SL ona periodic basis or as required by the Zones SL; and

(f)register all lease with the Zones SL.

(3) The accounts and records required under paragraph(e) of subsection (2) shall be maintained in any of the officiallanguages.

(4) An investment zone developer or an operator whofails to maintain adequate and proper accounts and other

77Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

records as required by this section or fails to comply withthe rules or regulations made under this Part commits anoffence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine notexceeding three million rupees or to an amount equivalentto not less than ten thousand United States Dollars (USD) orto imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or toboth.

85. The Zones SL Board may appoint any TechnicalCommittee or experts whom it may deem necessary for itsdecision-making process.

86. (1) (a) The Zones SL shall endeavour to publish alllaws, regulations, orders, rules and where legally permissible,judgments and administrative rules relating to the affairs ofinvestment zones on a single website to provide investorswith easy access to such information and material.

(b) The Zones SL shall consult with and provideinvestors with adequate opportunity to make representationsprior to taking decisions or the adoption of laws, regulations,rules, directions or orders which affect their rights as investorswithin the investment zones.

(2) Where any administrative proceedings are initiatedagainst any investor or investment in respect of their rightswithin the investment zones, all the rights, procedures anddue processes afforded to any citizen under the law in respectof such proceedings shall be afforded to the investor and tosuch investments.

87. (1) Any disputes between Zones SL and investorswithin the investment zones, shall be settled promptly andamicably through consultations and negotiations betweenthe parties.

(2) Where an amicable solution cannot be reached, suchinvestors shall have the right to use all other remedies underthe laws of Sri Lanka.

Technicalcommittees

Transparency

Disputesettlementbetween theZones SL andinvestors

78Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

88. The Zones SL shall provide for expeditious resolutionof labour disputes and disputes between investors andworkers employed within investment zones. Mechanismssuch as alternate dispute resolution methods or any othermeans of dispute resolution may be prescribed by way ofregulations for such purpose.

89. Zones SL may recommend to the EconomicCommission, the administrative incentives and exemptionfrom laws specified in the Schedule to this Part to be grantedto investors within the investment zones, from time to time.

CHAPTER XXI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

90. (1) Where an investor that applies to the Zones SL forsetting up of an investment within an investment promotionzone requires any approvals, authorizations or permits fromMinistries, Government departments, agencies, Zones SL,regulatory authorities or bodies named by the Cabinet ofMinisters on the recommendation of the Minister andprescribed by regulation made under this Part (hereinafterreferred to as the Specified Institutions) the Zones SLshall be empowered to facilitate the procurement of suchapprovals, authorizations or permits.

(2) Where the Zones SL makes an inquiry or request toany Specified Institution for an approval, authorization, orpermit in terms of subsection (1), such Specified Institutionshall be obliged to respond to such inquiry or request eitherconsenting to or objecting to such inquiry or request withinfifteen days of such inquiry or request being made. If theSpecified Institution refuses to respond to such inquiry ordenies such request, written reasons for such refusal or denialshall be provided in writing within such period of twentyone days.

Settlement oflabour disputes

Incentives

Special Powersof the Zones SLfor expeditingapprovals

79Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) All Specified Institutions shall be required tocollaborate with the Zones SL to enable it to perform itsfunctions and meet its objects.

(4) The Minister may by regulations made under this Partprescribe procedures for such collaboration, which shall becomplied with by Specified Institutions in line with standingoperating procedures on granting approvals for investmentprojects formulated by the Zones SL through a consultativeprocess.

(5) If a Specified Institution refuses, denies or fails torespond to an inquiry or request as per the regulations madeunder subsection (1) or (4), the Zones SL shall if deemedappropriate, refer such refusal, denial or failure to the Ministerforthwith, who shall, within two weeks refer the mater to theCabinet of Ministers for appropriate action.

91. All members of the Zones SL Board, Zones SL ChiefExecutive Officer and the officers and other employees ofthe Zones SL shall be deemed to be public servants withinthe meaning, and for the purposes of the Penal Code(Chapter 19).

92. The Zones SL shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Anti-Corruption Act,No. 9 of 2023, and the provisions of that Act shall beconstrued accordingly.

93. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst any members of the Zones SL Board, Zones SL ChiefExecutive Officer, officer or employee of the Zones SL forany act which in good faith is done or purported to be doneby him under this Part or on the directions of the Zones SLBoard, as the case may be, if he proves that he acted in goodfaith and exercised all due diligence, reasonable care andskill.

Members,officers andother employeesof the Zones SLdeemed to bepublic servants

Zones SLdeemed to be ascheduledinstitution

Protection foraction takenunder this Act

80Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

94. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the ZonesSL, make regulations in respect of all matters which arerequired by this Part to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are authorized to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generalityof the provisions contained in subsection (1), the Ministermay make regulations in regard to

(a)determine the scope and extent of any exemptionor modification of any of the written laws set out inthe Schedule to this Part which may be required forthe attainment of the objects of this Part;

(b)provide for any matter which is deemed necessaryfor discharge of the provisions of this Part includingbut not limited to specifying-

(i)procedure for allocation of sites andregistration within the investment zones;

(ii)procedures for operation within theinvestment zones;

(iii)procedures for the matters which will includecustoms procedures, exemption and pre-clearances and the treatment of which shallbe processed therein;

(iv)criteria and procedures for registration,approvals and licensing under this Part or forthose required under any other applicablelaws;

(v)matters relating to staff and all other mattersconnected thereto:

Regulations

81Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Provided however, regulations shall not bemade under this section providing terms lessfavourable than the terms and conditions ofemployment to which the officers and employeesof the BOI holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date were entitled;

(vi)fees and charges to be levied for any servicesprovided under this Part; and

(vii)require all investments falling under this Part toregister with the Zones SL within a period specifiedin the said regulation.

(3) Every regulation made under this section, shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made under this section shall,within three months from the date of its publication in theGazette, be placed before Parliament for approval. Everyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

95. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the Zones SLmay make rules in respect of all matters which rules areauthorized to be made under this Part.

(2) Every rule made by Zone SL shall be published in theGazette and shall come into operation upon such publication.

Rules

82Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

96. (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to theprovisions of this Part, the Minister may, by Order publishedin the Gazette, make provisions which are not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Part or any other written law, asappears to the Minister to be necessary or expedient forremoving the difficulty:

Provided that, no such Order shall be made after theexpiry of a period of five years from the date ofcommencement of this Part.

(2) Every Order made under this section shall, withinthree months after it is made, be laid before Parliament forapproval and such Order shall become operative only uponreceipt of the approval therefor of Parliament.

97. In case of any inconsistency between the provisionsof this Part and provisions of any other law relating toinvestment zones (save and except the Colombo Port CityEconomic Commission Act, No. 11 of 2021) the provisionsof this Part shall prevail.

98. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-

Board of Investment means, the Board of Investmentestablished under the Board of Investment of SriLanka Law, No. 4 of 1978;

investment zones mean, export processing zones,industrial parks, special economic zones,logistics zones or any sector based specialeconomic zones and other similar areas for theestablishment of investments, whether declaredunder this Part or any other law referred to in thisPart and shall include areas of authority andlicensed zones as referred to in the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978; and

Removal of

difficulties

This part toprevail

Interpretation

83Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

social infrastructure means, essential facilities forthe wellbeing and productivity enhancement ofthe employees of the enterprises and shallinclude day care centers, medical centers,accommodation, recreation facilities.

SCHEDULE

(sections 89 and 94)

1.Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235)

2.Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007

3.Inland Revenue Act, No. 24 of 2017

4.Finance Act, No. 18 of 2021

5.Foreign Exchange Act, No. 12 of 2017

6.National Film Corporation of Sri Lanka Act, No. 47 of

1971

7.Merchant Shipping Act, No. 52 of 1971

8.Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

9.Ceylon Electricity Board Act, No. 17 of 1969

10.National Water Supply and Drainage Board Law, No. 2 of

1974

11.Sri Lanka Ports Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979

12.Ceylon Petroleum Corporation Act, No. 28 of 1961

84Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

PART IV

CHAPTER XXII

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE OFFICE FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE

99. (1) There shall be established an office which shall becalled the Office for International Trade (in this Act referredto as the OIT).

(2) The OIT shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued inthat name.

100. The objects of the OIT shall, in accordance with theGovernment policies, be

(a)to promote and develop international trade of SriLanka;

(b)to coordinate international trade activities of SriLanka;

(c)to facilitate the growth of exports of Sri Lankanproducts and services;

(d)to promote Sri Lanka as a major trade, business andlogistical hub of the Indian Ocean region; and

(e)to serve as the lead agency for the implementationand coordination of international trade activitiesof Sri Lanka.

101. (1) The powers, duties and functions of the OIT shallbe-

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe OIT

Establishment ofthe Office forInternationalTrade

Objects of theOIT

85Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)to make recommendations to the Minister oninternational trade activities including measuresto-

(i)remove or reduce market access barriers and,facilitate the entry of Sri Lankan goods andservices into international markets;

(ii)ensure equitable treatment in internationalmarkets for Sri Lankan goods and services ingeneral and industrial, agricultural andfisheries products in particular; and

(iii)increase the exports of Sri Lankan goods andservices;

(b)to recommend to the Minister, where necessary,changes to the import and export policies of theGovernment of Sri Lanka with a view to facilitatinginternational trade of Sri Lanka;

(c)to conduct-

(i)feasibility studies prior to initiating; and

(ii)stakeholder consultations throughout theprocess of,

bi-lateral, multi-lateral, regional and internationaltrade negotiations;

(d)to assist Ambassador for International Tradeappointed under subsection (1) of section 114, tocarry out bilateral, multilateral, regional andinternational trade negotiations approved by theCabinet of Ministers;

86Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(e)to appoint an International Trade Officer to suchcountries, subject to such terms and conditions, inconsultation with the following persons: -

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Foreign Affairs;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Investment; and

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Trade:

Provided however, the Minister shall inconsultation with the OIT Board and personsreferred to in subparagraph (i) to (iv), prescribed byregulations, the powers, duties and functions of suchinternational trade officer;

(f)to promote Sri Lankas bi-lateral trade with othercountries, expanding the number of countries forconducting bi-lateral trade;

(g)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over and dismiss such officersand other employees as are necessary for theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers,duties and functions of the OIT under this Act;

(h)to purchase and hold any movable or immovableproperty, and give on lease or hire, mortgage,pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of any of themovable or immovable property purchased or heldby the OIT, for the purposes of the OIT;

87Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(i)to enter into and perform all such contracts as itmay consider necessary for the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions;

(j)to accept development assistance from multilateralagencies, whether in cash or otherwise, from personsor bodies of persons within or outside Sri Lankaand apply them in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions underthis Act:

Provided however, the OIT shall obtain priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources, in respect of all foreign assistancereceived under this paragraph;

(k)to engage in research and publications in relationto international trade;

(l)to collect and maintain statistics on Sri Lankasinternational trade; and

(m)to generally do such other acts or things necessaryfor the achievement of the objects of the OIT.

(2) The OIT shall exercise, perform and discharge allpowers, duties and functions specified in any law in respectof international trade.

CHAPTER XXIII

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE OIT

102. (1) The administration and management of the affairsof the OIT shall be vested in a Board of Management (in thisAct referred to as the OIT Board).

Constitution ofthe Board ofManagement ofthe OIT

88Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The OIT Board shall, for the purpose ofadministering and managing the affairs of the OIT, exercise,perform and discharge the powers, duties and functionsconferred or imposed on, or assigned to, the OIT by this Part.

(3) The OIT Board shall consist of-

(a)the Ambassador for international trade appointedunder section 114 who shall be the Chairperson ofthe OIT Board and Chief Executive Officer of theOIT;

(b)the Secretary to the Treasury or his representative;and

(c)five other persons who possess knowledge andexperience in the field of international trade,appointed by the President with the concurrence ofthe Constitutional Council (in this Act referred toas the appointed members).

103. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the OIT Board, if such person

(a)is, or becomes a member of Parliament, member ofany Provincial Council or any local authority;

(b)is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is, or becomes a citizen of Sri Lanka who is also acitizen of any other country;

(d)is a person who, having been declared as insolventor bankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka orin any other country, is an undischarged insolventor bankrupt;

Disqualificationsfor being amember of theOIT Board

89Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(e)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country, found or declared to be of unsoundmind;

(f)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by a court of Sri Lanka or any othercountry;

(g)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by, or on behalf of, the OIT; or

(h)has any financial or other interest direct or indirectas is likely to affect prejudicially the exercise,performance and discharge by such person of hispowers, duties and functions as a member of theOIT Board.

104. Every appointed member of the OIT Board shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of four years from the dateof his appointment, and unless removed from office, shall beeligible for re-appointment for not more than one furtherterm, whether consecutive or otherwise.

105. (1) Any appointed member of the OIT Board may,at any time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressedto the President, and such resignation shall take effect fromthe date on which the resignation is accepted in writing bythe President.

(2) The President may, for reasons assigned therefor,remove any appointed member from office. An appointedmember who has been removed from office shall not beeligible for re-appointment as a member of the OIT Board orto serve the OIT in any other capacity.

Term of officeof the appointedmembers of theOIT Board

Removal,resignation &c.,of appointedmembers

90Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal from office of any appointed member,the President shall, having regard to the provisions ofsections 102 and 103, appoint another person to fill suchvacancy. Such person shall hold office for the un-expiredperiod of the term of office of the member whom he succeeds,and unless removed from office, shall be eligible for re-appointment for not more than one further term, whetherconsecutive or otherwise.

(4) Where any appointed member of the OIT Board istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause, or if he is absentfrom Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months, thePresident shall, having regard to the provisions of sections102 and 103, appoint any other person to act in place ofsuch member during his absence.

(5) Where any appointed member of the OIT Board failsto attend three consecutive meetings of the OIT Boardwithout notifying his absence in advance to the Chairperson,such member shall be deemed to have vacated his officefrom the date of such third meeting and the President shall,having regard to the provisions of sections 102 and 103,appoint another person to fill such vacancy.

106. (1) The President shall, prior to appointing a personas a member of the OIT Board, require such person to declarethat neither he nor any of his family members has anyfinancial or other interest in the affairs of the OIT which islikely to affect prejudicially the exercise, performance anddischarge of his powers, duties and functions as a member ofthe OIT Board and satisfy himself of the matters so disclosed.

Financial orother interests ofthe members ofthe OIT Board

91Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2)The President shall also satisfy himself, from timeto time, that no member of the OIT Board has, since beingappointed to the OIT, acquired any such financial or otherinterest specified in subsection (1).

(3)A member of the OIT Board who is directly orindirectly interested in any contract, agreement or businessor any other matter made or proposed to be made by the OITshall forthwith disclose the nature and extent of his interestto the OIT Board and to the President and every suchdisclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of the OIT Boardand such member shall not thereafter participate in any matterconcerning with the OIT, until such time as the Presidenttakes a decision thereon.

(4)The OIT Board shall maintain a register or recordof conflict of interests on a case-by case basis.

107. An appointed member of the OIT Board shall notaccept or hold any other office or employment connectedwith international trade, whether remunerated or not, -

(a)in any public or private institution during his termof office; and

(b)in any private institution connected withinternational trade until the expiration of a periodof three years from the date of expiry of his term ofoffice or from the date of vacating office byresignation or removal, as the case may be.

108. (1) The meetings of the OIT Board shall be held atleast once in every month or as is required for the purpose ofexercising, performing and discharging the powers, dutiesand functions conferred or imposed on, or assigned to theOIT Board by this Part.

Restriction onemployment

Quorum and themeetings of theOIT Board

92Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2)The quorum for any meeting of the OIT Board shallbe five members.

(3) A meeting of the OIT Board may be held either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute thequorum being assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting thequorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of themeeting.

(4)All questions for decision at any meeting of theOIT Board shall be decided by the vote of the majority ofmembers present and voting at such meeting. In the case ofan equality of votes, the Chairperson shall, in addition to hisvote, have a casting vote.

(5)The Chairperson, if present, shall preside at everymeeting of the OIT Board. In the absence of the Chairpersonfrom any meeting of the OIT Board, any member elected bythe members present shall preside at such meeting of the OITBoard.

(6) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the OIT Board may regulate the procedure to be followed forthe summoning and holding of meetings of the OIT Boardand the transaction of business at such meetings.

109.The OIT Board may act notwithstanding anyvacancy among its members, and any act or proceeding ofthe OIT Board shall not be, or deemed to be, invalid byreason only of the existence of any vacancy among itsmembers or any defect in the appointment of a memberthereof.

Acts orproceedings ofthe OIT Boarddeemed not tobe invalid byreason of anyvacancy

93Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

110. The members of the OIT Board shall be paid suchremuneration in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the President, in consultation with the Ministerassigned the subject of Finance.

111. (1) The OIT Board may, whenever it considersnecessary, invite experts to any meeting of the OIT Board,who have expertise on any subject which is dealt with bythe OIT Board at such meeting, for the purpose of obtainingtheir views on such subject matter for the effective dischargeof the functions of the OIT:

Provided however, the OIT Board shall have theabsolute discretion of accepting or rejecting the views ofsuch experts.

(2) The experts shall have no voting rights.

(3) The experts may be paid such honorarium as may bedetermined by the OIT Board for attending the meetings ofthe OIT Board.

(4) Every expert invited by the OIT Board shall, prior tobeing engaged by the OIT Board, make a declaration requiredby section 124 and keep confidential all matters discussedby the OIT Board and any other information acquired bysuch expert in terms of his engagement with the OIT. Everysuch expert shall also make a declaration that he has nofinancial or other interest in the affairs of the OIT as specifiedin subsection (1) of section 106.

112. (1) The seal of the OIT shall be as determined by theOIT Board.

(2) The seal of the OIT

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe OIT Board

OIT Board toinvite experts tomeetings

Staff of the OIT

94Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the OIT Board; and

(b)shall be in the custody of such person orpersons as the OIT Board may determine,from time to time.

(3) The seal of the OIT shall not be affixed to anyinstrument or document except with the sanction of the OITBoard and except in the presence of the Chairperson and oneother member of the OIT Board, who shall sign the instrumentor document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unableto be present at the time when the seal of the OIT is affixed toany instrument or document, any other member of the OITBoard authorised in writing by the Chairperson in that behalf,shall be competent to sign such instrument or document inaccordance with the preceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The OIT Board shall maintain a register ofinstruments and documents to which the seal of the OIT hasbeen affixed.

113. (1) The OIT Board may, by rules made in that behalfunder this Part, delegate any of its powers, duties andfunctions to any officer of the OIT who shall be an officernot below the rank of a Director.

(2) An officer to whom any power, duty or function isdelegated under subsection (1), shall exercise, perform ordischarge such power, duty or function, subject to suchdirections as may be given by the OIT Board.

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions ofthe OIT Board

95Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

CHAPTER XXIV

AMBASSADOR FOR INTERNATIONAL TRADE

114. (1) The President shall, with the concurrence of theConstitutional Council, appoint a person who possessesknowledge and experience in the field of international trade,to be the Ambassador for International Trade-

(a)who shall be the chief negotiator for internationaltrade negotiations; and

(b)for the purpose of conducting Sri Lankasinternational trade relations.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Ambassador forInternational Trade to coordinate international trade mattersand negotiations concerning the World Trade Organization(WTO), United Nations Conference on Trade andDevelopment (UNCTAD), any country or country groupingsin relation to international trade matters and negotiations,the Commonwealth and other international tradenegotiations.

(3) The Ambassador for International Trade may, atany time, resign his office by letter in that behalf addressedto the President, and such resignation shall take effect fromthe date on which it is accepted in writing by the President.

(4) The President may, with the concurrence of theConstitutional Council, remove the Ambassador forInternational Trade from office-

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

Ambassador forInternationalTrade

96Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)if he has done any act which, in the opinion of theOIT Board, is of a fraudulent or illegal character oris prejudicial to the interests of the OIT; or

(c)if he has failed to comply with any directions givenby the OIT Board.

(5) The Ambassador for International Trade shall,unless he vacates office earlier by death, resignation orremoval, hold office for a period of four years from the dateof his appointment, and unless removed from office, shall beeligible for re-appointment for not more than one furtherterm, whether consecutive or otherwise.

(6) In the event of the vacation of office by death,resignation or removal from office of the Ambassador forInternational Trade, the President shall, in terms of theprovisions of subsection (1), appoint another person to fillsuch vacancy. Such person shall hold office for the un-expired period of the term of office of the person whom hesucceeds, and unless removed from office, shall be eligiblefor re-appointment for not more than one further term,whether consecutive or otherwise.

(7) Where the Ambassador for International Trade istemporarily unable to perform the duties of his office onaccount of ill health or any other cause, or if he is absentfrom Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months, thePresident shall, in terms of the provisions of subsection (1),appoint a member of the OIT Board to temporarily act as theAmbassador for International Trade during his absence.

(8) The Ambassador for International Trade shall bepaid such remuneration in such manner and at such rates asmay be determined by the President, in consultation withthe Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

97Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

115. The Ambassador for International Trade shall notaccept or hold any other office or employment, whetherremunerated or not-

(a)in any public or private institution during his termof office as the Ambassador for International Trade;and

(b)in any private institution connected withinternational trade until the expiration of a periodof three years from the date of expiry of his term ofoffice or from the date of vacating office byresignation or removal, as the case may be.

116. (1) The OIT Board may delegate any of its powers,duties and functions to the Ambassador for InternationalTrade.

(2) The Ambassador for International Trade shallexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions assigned to him by the OIT Board under subsection(1), subject to the general or special directions of the OITBoard.

(3) The OIT Board may, at any time, revoke the powers,duties and functions delegated to the Ambassador forInternational Trade.

CHAPTER XXV

DIRECTOR GENERAL AND OTHER STAFF OF THE OIT

117. (1) There shall be a Director General of the OIT (inthis Act referred to as the OIT Director General) appointedby the Minister in consultation with the OIT Board.

Restriction onemployment

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions ofthe OIT Boardto theAmbassador forInternationalTrade

Director Generalof the OIT

98Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The qualifications and experience of the personwho shall be appointed as the OIT Director General and theterms and conditions of employment of the OIT DirectorGeneral shall be as prescribed by regulations.

(3) The OIT Director General shall, subject to thegeneral or special directions and control of the OIT Board

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe OIT including the administration and controlof the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisionsof the OIT Board;

(d)assist the Ambassador for International Trade incarrying out his powers, duties and functions underthis Part; and

(e)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the OIT Board.

(4) The OIT Director General shall be entitled to bepresent and speak at any meeting of the OIT Board, but shallnot be entitled to vote at such meeting.

(5) The OIT Director General may, with the writtenapproval of the OIT Board, whenever he considers itnecessary to do so, delegate in writing to any officer oremployee of the OIT any power, duty or function conferredor imposed on, or assigned to him by this Part, and suchofficer or employee shall exercise, perform or discharge suchpower, duty or function, subject to the general or specialdirections of the OIT Director General.

99Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(6) The OIT Director General shall be responsible andanswerable to the OIT Board in the exercise, performanceand discharge of his powers, duties and functions under thisPart.

(7) The Minister may, in consultation with the OITBoard, and subject to the provisions of subsection (8), removethe OIT Director General from office-

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b) if he has done any act which, in the opinion of theOIT Board, is of a fraudulent or illegal character oris prejudicial to the interests of the OIT; or

(c)if he has failed to comply with any directions issuedby the OIT Board.

(8) Prior to being removed under subsection (7), theOIT Director General shall be issued a notice in writing toshow cause as to why he should not be removed from officeand be given an opportunity of being heard against anyallegations made against him.

(9) The office of the OIT Director General shall becomevacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection(7) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to theMinister by the holder of that office.

(10) If any vacancy occurs in the office of the OITDirector General, the Minister may, in consultation with theOIT Board, appoint an appointed member of the OIT Boardto exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of the OIT Director General until an appointmentis made under subsection (1).

100Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(11) The OIT Director General shall be paid suchremuneration as may be determined by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Minister assigned the subject of Finance.

118. (1) The OIT may appoint as staff of the OIT suchnumber of officers and other employees as may be necessaryfor the efficient exercise, performance and discharge of itspowers, duties and functions under this Part.

(2) The OIT Board may, in respect of the officers andother employees appointed to the OIT under subsection (1)

(a)determine the terms and conditions of employmentof such officers and employees;

(b)fix the rates at which such officers and employeesshall be remunerated in keeping with relatedguidelines of the Government and in consultationwith the Minister assigned the subject of Finance;and

(c)exercise disciplinary control over or dismiss suchofficers and employees.

(3) The OIT Board may make rules in respect of all or anyof the matters referred to in subsection (2).

(4) The OIT shall not appoint as an officer or otheremployee of the OIT, any person who has been dismissedfrom any previous position held by such person in the publicor private sector.

119. (1) At the request of the OIT, any officer in the publicservice may, with the consent of that officer and the PublicService Commission, be temporarily appointed to the staffof the OIT for such period as may be determined by the OITor with like consent, be permanently appointed to such staff.

Appointmentofpublic officersto the staff ofthe OIT

staff of the OIT

101Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the OIT, the provisions of subsection(2) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the OIT, the provisions of subsection(3) of section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act,No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to such officer.

(4) Where the OIT employs any person who has enteredinto a contract with the Government by which he has agreedto serve the Government for a specified period, any periodof service with the OIT by that person shall be regarded asservice to the Government, for the purpose of dischargingthe obligations of such contract.

CHAPTER XXVI

FINANCE

120. (1) The OIT shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the OIT all suchsums of money as may be voted upon from time to time byParliament for the use of the OIT.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the OIT all suchsums of money as are required to defray any expenditureincurred by the OIT in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Part.

121. (1) The financial year of the OIT shall be the calendaryear.

Fund of the OIT

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts of theOIT

102Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The OIT shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income, expenditure, assets and liabilities and allother financial transactions of the OIT.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to, and in respect of, the audit of the accounts of theOIT.

CHAPTER XXVII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

122. (1) The OIT Board may establish committees orpanels to assist it in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions assigned to it under thisPart.

(2) Every such committee or panel shall consist of suchnumber of members as may be determined by the OIT Board,not below the rank of an Additional Secretary of the relevantMinistry and the heads of the relevant Governmentinstitutions functioning under such Ministry or such seniorofficers as may be authorised by the heads of suchGovernment institutions, nominated by the Secretary to suchMinistry.

(3) The provisions of sections 103 and 106 shall, mutatismutandis apply to the members of the committees or panelsestablished under subsection (1), in relation to thedisqualifications for appointment and financial or otherinterests.

(4) The members of the committees or panels may bepaid such honorarium in such manner and at such rates asmay be determined by the President in consultation with theMinister assigned the subject of Finance.

Establishment ofcommittees orpanels

103Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

123. (1) The OIT shall, within six months of the end ofeach financial year, submit to the President an annual reportof the activities carried out by the OIT and the progress inrespect of international trade including the individualcountries with which bi-lateral trade is conducted duringthat financial year. The following documents shall be attachedto such report: -

(a)the audited accounts of the OIT for the year alongwith the Auditor-Generals report; and

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which such reportand accounts relate.

(2) The President shall, within three months from thedate of receipt of the annual report, table such report alongwith the documents specified in subsection (1) in Parliament,for its consideration.

124. Every member of the OIT Board, OIT Director Generaland all officers and other employees of the OIT shall, beforeentering upon their duties, make a declaration pledgingthemselves to observe strict secrecy in respect of all mattersconnected with the affairs of the OIT, which has come totheir knowledge in the exercise, performance and dischargeof their powers, duties and functions under this Part, andshall by such declaration pledge themselves not to discloseany such matter, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; or

(b)in order to comply with any of the provisions ofthe Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.

Annualreport

Declaration ofsecrecy

104Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

125. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, issue to theOIT in writing such general or special directions as to theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the OIT so as to ensure giving proper effectto the Government policy relating to the objects of the OIT,and it shall be the duty of the OIT to comply with suchdirections.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, in writing, directthe OIT to furnish to him in such form as he may require,returns, accounts and any other information with respect tothe property and activities of the OIT, and it shall be theduty of the OIT to comply with such directions.

126. All members of the OIT Board, OIT Director Generaland the officers and other employees of the OIT shall bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning, and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

127. The OIT shall be deemed to be a scheduled institutionwithin the meaning, and for the purposes of the Anti-Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Actshall be construed accordingly.

128. (1) Any expense incurred by the OIT in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the OIT before any court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the OIT and any costs paidto, or recovered by the OIT in any such suit or prosecutionshall be credited to the Fund of the OIT.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member of the OITBoard, the OIT Director General or any officer or otheremployee of the OIT in any suit or prosecution broughtagainst such person before any court or tribunal in respect ofany act which is done or is purported to be done by such

Members,officers andother employeesof the OITdeemed to bepublic servants

Directions to beissued by theMinister

Expenses in suitor prosecutionto be paid out ofthe Fund of theOIT

OITdeemed tobe a scheduledinstitution

105Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

person under the provisions of this Part or on the directionof the OIT shall, if the court holds that such act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund of the OIT, unless suchexpense is recovered by such person in such suit orprosecution.

129. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with the OIT,make regulations in respect of all matters which are requiredby this Part to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication, or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulations.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(4) Any such regulation which is not so approved shallbe deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval,but without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette.

130. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the OITBoard may make rules in respect of any matter for whichrules are authorised to be made under this Part or all or any ofthe following matters:

(a)for the regulation of the procedure to be followedfor the summoning and holding of meetings of theOIT Board and the transaction of business at suchmeetings; and

Regulations

Rules

106Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)any other matter connected with the managementof the affairs of the OIT.

(2) Every rule made by the OIT Board shall be publishedin the Gazette and shall come into operation upon suchpublication.

131. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectof, and functions relating to, the Office forInternational Trade under Article 44 or 45 ofthe Constitution.

PART V

CHAPTER XXVIII

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL PRODUCTIVITY COMMISSION

132. (1) There shall be established a Commission calledand known as the National Productivity Commission(hereinafter referred to as the Productivity Commission).

(2) The Productivity Commission shall, by the nameassigned to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate andshall have a perpetual succession and a common seal andmay sue and be sued in that name.

(3) The Productivity Commission shall be anindependent body and accountable to Parliament.

(4) The independence of the Productivity Commissionshall be respected at all times.

Establishmentof theNationalProductivityCommission

Interpretation

107Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(5) A person shall not cause undue influence, or interferewith the Productivity Commission in the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Part.

133. The object of the Productivity Commission shall beto promote economic growth through increased productivityfor the improvement of wellbeing of people in a sustainablemanner.

134. The Productivity Commission shall have thefollowing powers to perform and discharge its duties andfunctions, as are necessary for the achievement of the objectof the Productivity Commission: -

(a)subject to the provisions of section 154, requestinformation, data, statistics, or documents from anypublic institution or person;

(b)publish and disseminate the findings of an inquiryor research conducted by the ProductivityCommission and its recommendations made to therelevant authorities to the extent permitted underthe Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016;

(c)open, maintain and operate current, savings orother deposit accounts in any bank and, if necessary,to close such accounts;

(d)enter into and perform all such contracts oragreements as may be necessary for the exercise ofthe powers and the carrying out of the object of theProductivity Commission;

Object ofthe ProductivityCommission

Powers of theProductivityCommission

108Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(e)hold, take or give on lease or hire, mortgage, pledge,sell or otherwise dispose of any movable orimmovable property of the ProductivityCommission; and

(f)generally, to do all such acts and things authorizedby this Part and rules made thereunder for theachievement of the object of the ProductivityCommission.

135. (1) The duties and functions of the ProductivityCommission shall be to -

(a)make recommendations to the relevant authoritiesbased on evidence and comprehensive analysis inorder to increase productivity and economicperformance including but not limited to thefollowing: -

(i)streamlining regulation of productivity;

(ii)promoting healthy competition andcontestable markets;

(iii)catalysing structural transformation; and

(iv)encouraging international competitiveness;

(b)make recommendations to the Government onintroducing a national competition policy andadvise on subsequent revisions as needed from timeto time;

(c)conduct public inquiries and evidence-basedresearch on issues related to productivity, eitherin-house or contracted out, and disclose themethodologies used for such inquiry or research;

Duties andfunctions of theProductivityCommission

109Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(d)carry out, performance, monitoring, evaluationand benchmarking on the productivity;

(e)report annually to Parliament on the productivitytrends within the first four months of the followingyear; and

(f)advocate on the need for productivityimprovement.

(2) In the performance and discharge of its duties andfunctions referred to in subsection (1), the ProductivityCommission shall-

(a)act as referred to by the Cabinet of Ministers orParliament or on its own initiative;

(b)consider both the private sector and the publicsector including both tradable and non-tradablegoods and services;

(c)recognize the interests of the people and thoseaffected by the recommendations of theProductivity Commission; and

(d)ensure sustainable economic development.

136. (1) The Productivity Commission shall make itsrecommendations on any matter referred to it and which fallswithin the objects of this Part, within a period of six monthsfrom the date of receipt of such matter.

(2) In case of a matter referred to the ProductivityCommission by the Cabinet of Ministers, the ProductivityCommission shall refer its recommendations to the Cabinetof Ministers.

Procedure to makerecommendations

110Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) (a) In case of a matter referred to the ProductivityCommission by Parliament or attended to by its owninitiative, the Productivity Commission shall refer itsrecommendations to the Speaker.

(b) The Speaker shall cause to submit therecommendations referred to in paragraph (a) to aCommittee of Parliament established under the StandingOrders of Parliament to review and make comments on, or tomake amendments to such recommendations.

(c) The Committee of Parliament may forward suchcomments or amendments to the Speaker within thirty daysfrom the date of receipt of such recommendations. TheSpeaker shall forward such comments or amendments to theProductivity Commission.

(d) The Productivity Commission shall, after taking intoconsideration the comments and amendments of theCommittee of Parliament, make recommendations to theSpeaker.

(4) The Productivity Commission may, on its owninitiative seek an opportunity to apprise Parliament oncritical issues pertaining to the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions or to submit anydocument or report relating thereto.

CHAPTER XXIX

COMPOSITION OF, AND THE ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF

THE AFFAIRS OF THE PRODUCTIVITY COMMISSION

137. (1) The Productivity Commission shall consist of-Composition ofthe ProductivityCommission

111Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)the Director General (Public Finance) of the Treasury(hereinafter referred to as the ex-officio member;and

(b)five members who shall be appointed by thePresident (hereinafter referred to as the appointedmembers).

(2) In making the appointments referred to in paragraph(b) of subsection (1), consideration shall be afforded to ensurethat such members possess relevant knowledge, expertiseand experience and national or international recognition, inthe fields of Economics, Social Science, Investment, Finance,Trade or Commerce, Law, Information Technology,Engineering, Business or Accountancy.

(3) At least two appointed members of the ProductivityCommission shall be full time members.

138. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Productivity Commission,if such person

(a)is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(b)is elected or appointed as a member of Parliamentor a Provincial Council or any local authority;

(c)is a member of a political party;

(d)subject to the provisions of section 142, has anyfinancial or other similar interest direct or indirect,as is likely to affect prejudicially the performanceor discharge by him of his duties or functions as amember of the Productivity Commission;

(e)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;

Disqualificationfor being amember of theProductivityCommission

112Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(f)is a person who having been declared insolvent orbankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka and isan undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;

(g)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any othercountry; or

(h)directly or indirectly holds or enjoys any right,entitlement or benefit under any contract madeby, or on behalf of the Productivity Commission.

139. (1) The President shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairperson of the ProductivityCommission who shall not be a full-time member.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from the office ofChairperson by letter in that behalf addressed to the Presidentand such resignation shall be effective from the date onwhich it is accepted in writing by the President.

(3) The President may for reasons assigned therefor removethe Chairperson from the office of Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3)the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofhis term of office of the Productivity Commission.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toperform the duties of his office due to ill health, otherinfirmity, absence from Sri Lanka for a period not less thanthree months or any other cause, the President may appointany other appointed member to act as the Chairperson inaddition to his normal duties.

Chairperson ofthe ProductivityCommission

113Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

140. Every appointed member of the ProductivityCommission shall, unless he vacates office earlier by death,resignation, or removal, hold office for a period of threeyears, and unless removed from office shall be eligible forre-appointment, for not more than one further term, whetherconsecutive or otherwise.

141. (1) Any appointed member of the ProductivityCommission may, at any time, resign his office by letter inthat behalf addressed to the President, and such resignationshall take effect from the date on which the resignation isaccepted in writing by the President.

(2) The President may, for reasons assigned thereforremove any appointed member from office. An appointedmember who has been removed from office shall not beeligible for re-appointment as a member of the ProductivityCommission or to serve the Productivity Commission inany other capacity.

(3) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignationor removal of any appointed member, the President shall,having regard to the provisions of sections 137 and 138,appoint another person to fill such vacancy and such personshall hold office for the un-expired period of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds and such personshall be eligible to be reappointed for not more than onefurther term whether consecutive or otherwise.

(4) Where any appointed member of the ProductivityCommission is temporarily unable to perform and dischargethe duties and functions of his office on account of ill healthor any other cause or if he is absent from Sri Lanka for aperiod of not less than three months, the President may,having regard to the provisions of sections 137 and 138,appoint any other person to act in place of such memberduring his absence.

Term of officeof appointedmembers

Removalresignation &c.of appointedmembers

114Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(5) Where any appointed member of the ProductivityCommission fails to attend three consecutive meetings ofthe Productivity Commission without obtaining prior excusefor absence from the Chairperson, such member shall deemedto have vacated his office at the conclusion of the thirdmeeting and the President shall appoint another person tofill such vacancy in the manner provided in subsection (3).

142. (1) The President shall, prior to appointing a personas an appointed member of the Productivity Commission,require such person to declare that neither he nor his familyhas financial or other similar interest in the affairs of theProductivity Commission which is likely to affectprejudicially the performing and discharging of his dutiesand functions as a member of the Productivity Commissionand the President shall satisfy himself of the matters sodisclosed.

(2) The President shall also satisfy himself, from time totime, that no appointed member of the ProductivityCommission has since being appointed to the ProductivityCommission acquired any such financial or other similarinterest.

(3) (a) A member of the Productivity Commission who isdirectly or indirectly interested in any contract, agreement,business or any other matter made or proposed to be madeby the Productivity Commission, shall forthwith disclosethe nature and extent of his interest to the ProductivityCommission and the President, as the case may be.

(b) Every such disclosure shall be recorded in the minutesof the Productivity Commission and such member shall notthereafter take part in any matter concerning the ProductivityCommission with regard to such contract, agreement, businessor other matter.

Financial interestof the members

115Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(4) The Productivity Commission shall maintain a registeror a record of conflict of interest on case-by-case basis.

143. (1) The meetings of the Productivity Commissionshall be held at least once in every month or as is requiredfor the purpose of exercise, performance and discharge itspowers, duties and functions conferred on, imposed on orassigned to the Productivity Commission by this Part.

(2) The quorum for a meeting of the ProductivityCommission shall be three members including theChairperson. In the absence of the Chairperson, the quorumshall be three members including the acting Chairperson.

(3) A meeting of the Productivity Commission may beheld either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute a quorumbeing assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting aquorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.

(4) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of theProductivity Commission. In the absence of the Chairpersonfrom any meeting of the Productivity Commission, themember appointed to act in his place under subsection (5) ofsection 141 shall preside at such meeting.

(5) All questions for decision at any meeting of theProductivity Commission shall be decided by the vote ofthe majority of members present at such meeting. In the caseof an equality of votes the Chairperson shall, in addition tohis vote have a casting vote.

Quorum andmeetings of theProductivityCommission

116Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(6) The Productivity Commission may actnotwithstanding any vacancy among its members, and anyact or proceeding of the Productivity Commission shall notbe, or deemed to be, invalid by reason only of the existenceof any vacancy among its members or any defect in theappointment of a member thereof.

(7) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Productivity Commission may regulate the procedure tobe followed for the summoning and holding of its meetingsand the transaction of business at such meetings.

144. The Chairperson and members of the ProductivityCommission shall be paid such remuneration in such mannerand at such rates as may be determined by Parliament whichshall be charged on the Consolidated Fund.

145. (1) The seal of the Productivity Commission shallbe as determined by the Productivity Commission.

(2) The seal of the Productivity Commission

(a)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Productivity Commission; and

(b)shall be in the custody of such person or persons asthe Productivity Commission may determine fromtime to time.

(3) The seal of the Productivity Commission shall not beaffixed to any instrument or document except with thesanction of the Productivity Commission and in the presenceof the Chairperson and one other member of the ProductivityCommission who shall sign the instrument or document intoken of their presence:

Remuneration ofthe members ofthe ProductivityCommission

Seal of theProductivityCommission

117Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Provided however, where the Chairperson is unable to bepresent at the time when seal of the Productivity Commissionis affixed to any instrument or document, any other memberof the Productivity Commission authorized in writing bythe Chairperson on that behalf shall be competent to signsuch instrument or document in accordance with thepreceding provisions of this subsection.

(4) The Productivity Commission shall maintain a register

of the instruments and documents to which the seal of the

Productivity Commission has been affixed.

146. (1) The Productivity Commission may, whenever it

may consider necessary invite expert or professional to any

meeting of the Productivity Commission who has expertise

on any subject which will be dealt with by the Productivity

Commission at such meetings for the purpose of obtaining

their views on such subject matter for the effective

performance and discharge of the duties and functions of

the Productivity Commission, provided however the

Productivity Commission shall have the absolute discretion

of accepting or rejecting the views of the expert or

professional.

(2) The expert or professional shall be paid such

remuneration as may be determined by the Productivity

Commission and shall have no voting rights.

(3) Every expert or professional invited by the

Productivity Commission shall, prior to being engaged by

the Productivity Commission, make a declaration required

by section 154 and keep confidential all matters discussed

ProductivityCommission toinvite experts orprofessionals tomeetings

118Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

by the Productivity Commission and any other informationacquired by such expert or professional in terms of itsengagement with the Productivity Commission. Every suchexpert or professional shall also make a declaration that hehas no financial or other similar interest in the affairs of theProductivity Commission.

CHAPTER XXX

EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND THE STAFF OF THEPRODUCTIVITY COMMISSION

147. (1) There shall be appointed by the ProductivityCommission, an Executive Director of the ProductivityCommission (hereinafter referred to as the ExecutiveDirector), whose qualifications and experience and the termsand conditions of employment shall be as prescribed byregulation; and

(2) The Executive Director shall be the Chief ExecutiveOfficer of the Productivity Commission.

(3) The Executive Director shall, subject to the generaldirections and supervision of the Productivity Commission-

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Productivity Commission including theadministration and control of the staff;

(b)function as the Accounting Officer of theProductivity Commission;

(c)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Productivity Commission; and

ExecutiveDirector of theProductivityCommission

119Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(d)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Productivity Commission.

(4) The Executive Director shall be entitled to be presentand speak at any meetings of the Productivity Commission,but shall not be entitled to vote at such meeting.

(5) The Executive Director may, with the written approvalof the Productivity Commission, whenever he considers itnecessary to do so, delegate in writing to any officer oremployee of the Productivity Commission, any of his powers,duties or functions and the officer or employee to whom anysuch power, duty or function is delegated shall exercise,perform and discharge them subject to the directions of theProductivity Commission.

(6) The Productivity Commission may remove theExecutive Director from office

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of exercising,performing and discharging his powers, duties andfunctions;

(b)if he had done any act which, in the opinion of theProductivity Commission, is of a fraudulent orillegal character or is prejudicial to the interests ofthe Productivity Commission; or

(c)has failed to comply with any directions issued bythe Productivity Commission.

(7) The office of the Executive Director shall becomevacant upon the death, removal from office under subsection(6) or resignation by letter in that behalf addressed to theProductivity Commission by the holder of such office.

120Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(8) If a vacancy occurs in the office of the ExecutiveDirector, the Productivity Commission may appoint amember of the Productivity Commission to exercise, performand discharge the powers, duties and functions of theExecutive Director until an appointment is made undersubsection (1).

(9) The remuneration of the Executive Director shall bedetermined by the Productivity Commission in accordancewith any written law and any guideline issued from time totime by the Government.

148. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, theProductivity Commission may appoint such number ofofficers and employees as may be necessary for the efficientexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, dutiesand functions.

(2) Subject to any written law and any guideline issuedfrom time to time by the Government, the ProductivityCommission shall determine the following matters in respectof the officers and employees appointed under subsection(1):

(a)disciplinary control over or dismissal such officersand employees;

(b)the terms and conditions of employment of suchofficers and employees including the scheme ofrecruitment; and

(c)the rates at which such officers and employees shallbe remunerated.

Appointment ofthe staff ofProductivityCommission

121Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) The Productivity Commission shall not, however,appoint as an officer or employee of the ProductivityCommission, any person who has been dismissed from anyprevious position held by such person in the public or privatesector.

149. (1) At the request of the Productivity Commission,any officer in the public service may, with the consent ofthat officer and of the Public Service Commission, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the ProductivityCommission for such period as may be determined by theProductivity Commission, or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Productivity Commission, theprovisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Productivity Commission, theprovisions of subsection (3) of section 14 of the NationalTransport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatismutandis, apply to and in relation to such officer.

CHAPTER XXXI

FINANCE

150. (1) The productivity Commission shall have its ownFund.

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted byParliament, from time to time, for the use of theProductivity Commission; and

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff ofthe ProductivityCommission

Fund of theProductivityCommission

122Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theProductivity Commission for the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions and for the promotion of the object of theProductivity Commission, by way of loansdonations, gifts, bequests or grants from whatsoeversource within or outside Sri Lanka.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums ofmoney required to defray the expenditure incurred by theProductivity Commission in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Part.

151. (1) The financial year of the ProductivityCommission shall be the calendar year.

(2) The Productivity Commission shall cause properbooks of accounts to be kept of the income and expenditure,assets and liabilities and all other financial transactions ofthe Productivity Commission.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of accounts of the ProductivityCommission.

CHAPTER XXXII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

152. (1) The Productivity Commission may establishcommittees and panels to assist it in the exercise, performanceand discharge of its powers, duties and functions under thisPart and may appoint such persons, who have the knowledgeand expertise in the fields of Economics, Investment,Finance, Trade or Commerce, Law, Information Technology,

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts of theProductivityCommission

Establishment ofcommittees orpanels

123Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Engineering, Business or Accountancy, as the ProductivityCommission may deem necessary to be members of any suchcommittee or panel.

(2) A committee or panel shall carry out its functions andfulfil its obligations as stipulated in the terms of referencegiven to such committee or panel by the ProductivityCommission.

(3) The Productivity Commission may, where it mayconsider necessary, co-opt as a member to a committee orpanel, any person who possesses the required knowledgeand expertise in the relevant field.

(4) The honorarium of the members of such committeesor panels shall be determined by the ProductivityCommission in accordance with any written law and anyguideline issued from time to time by the Government.

(5) The members of such committee or panel shall bepresent at the meeting for which their presence is requiredand express their opinions but shall have no voting rights atsuch meetings.

153. (1) The Productivity Commission shall, within fourmonths of the end of each financial year, submit to theSpeaker an annual report on the activities carried out by theProductivity Commission. The following documents shallbe attached to such report: -

(a)the audited accounts of the ProductivityCommission for the year along with the Auditor-Generals report; and

(b)a report of proposed activities for the yearimmediately following the year to which such reportand accounts relate.

Annual reports

124Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) The Speaker shall, within three months from the dateof receipt of the annual report, table such annual report alongwith the documents specified in subsection (1) in Parliamentfor its consideration.

154. Every member of the Productivity Commission,Executive Director and all officers and employees of theProductivity Commission and all experts or professionalsconsulted by the Productivity Commission under section146 and members of committees or panels appointed undersection 152, shall, before entering upon his duties, sign adeclaration pledging to observe strict secrecy in respect ofall matters connected with the affairs of the ProductivityCommission, which has come to his knowledge in theexercise, performance or discharge of his powers, duties orfunctions under this Part and by such declaration pledgehimself not to disclose any such matter except-

(a)when required to do so by a court of law;

(b)for the purpose of exercising, performing ordischarging the powers, duties and functions underthis Part or any other written law; or

(c)in order to comply with the provisions of the Rightto Information Act, No.12 of 2016.

155. (1) In the performance and discharge of any of itsduties and functions under this Part, the ProductivityCommission or any officer or employee of the ProductivityCommission authorized in that behalf by the ProductivityCommission may, by a notice in writing require any publicinstitution or any person to furnish to the ProductivityCommission or to the officer or employee of the ProductivityCommission, within such period as shall be specified insuch notice, such information, data, statistics, or documentas shall be specified in such notice.

Declaration ofsecrecy

Failing toprovideinformation &c.to be an offence

125Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) It shall be the duty of the head of such publicinstitution or such person who is required by notice undersubsection (1), to furnish any information, data, statistics ordocument within the period specified in such notice, to theextent permitted under the Right to Information Act, No. 12of 2016.

(3) Any person who-

(a)fails or refuses to furnish any information, data,statistics or document when required to do so underthis section; or

(b)makes any statement or submits an information,data, statistics or a document knowing it to be falseor misleading,

commits an offence under this Part and shall, on convictionby a Magistrate be liable to a fine not more than five hundredthousand rupees.

156. Where a body of persons is convicted of an offenceunder this Part, then-

(a)if such body of persons is a body incorporate orunincorporated, every director or officer or agentthereof; and

(b)if such body of persons is a firm, every partner, anyofficer or a member of such firm,

shall be liable to a fine as specified for the respective offence:

Offence by bodyof persons

126Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Provided however, a director or an officer or an agentof such body incorporate, unincorporated or partner of suchfirm shall not be deemed to be guilty of such offence if heproves that such offence was committed without hisknowledge or that he used all due diligence to prevent thecommission of such offence.

157. All members of the Productivity Commission, theExecutive Director, officers and employees of theProductivity Commission shall be deemed to be publicservants within the meaning and for the purposes of thePenal Code (Chapter 19).

158. The Productivity Commission shall be deemed tobe a scheduled institution within the meaning and for thepurposes of the Anti- Corruption Act, No. 9 of 2023 and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

159. (1) Any expense incurred by the ProductivityCommission in any suit or prosecution brought by or againstthe Productivity Commission before any court or tribunal,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Productivity Commissionand any costs paid to, or recovered by the ProductivityCommission in any such suit or prosecution shall be creditedto the Fund of the Productivity Commission.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member of theProductivity Commission, the Executive Director or anyofficer or employee of the Productivity Commission in any

ProductivityCommissiondeemed to be ascheduledinstitution

Expenses in suitor prosecutionto be paid out ofthe Fund

Members of theProductivityCommission,the ExecutiveDirector,officers andemployees ofthe ProductivityCommissiondeemed to bepublic servants

127Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

suit or prosecution brought against such person before anycourt or tribunal in respect of any act which is done or ispurported to be done by such person under the provisions ofthis Part or on the direction of the Productivity Commissionshall, if the court or tribunal holds that such act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund of the ProductivityCommission, unless such expense is recovered by suchperson in such suit or prosecution.

160. (1) The Productivity Commission may, subject tothe provisions of this Part, make rules in respect of any matterfor which rules are authorised to be made under this Part andall or any of the following matters:

(a)for the regulation of the procedure to be followedfor the summoning and holding of meetings of theProductivity Commission and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings;

(b)the form in which the information is to be providedunder section 155 to the Productivity Commission;

(c)the methodologies which shall be used to conductpublic inquiries and evidence-based research onproductivity; and

(d)any other matter connected with the managementof the affairs of the Productivity Commission.

(2)Every rule made by the Productivity Commissionshall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation on the date of its publication or on such later dateas may be specified therein.

161. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-Interpretation

Rules

128Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

person includes any body of persons whethercorporate or unincorporated and a naturalperson;

public institution includes a GovernmentMinistry, Government department, ProvincialCouncil, Provincial Ministry or a department,local authority or any other agency establishedunder any written law with the financial supportby Government of Sri Lanka; and

relevant authorities includes the Cabinet ofMinisters and Parliament.

PART VI

CHAPTER XXXIII

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA INSTITUTE OF ECONOMICS ANDINTERNATIONAL TRADE

162. (1) There shall be established an Institute whichshall be called the Sri Lanka Institute of Economics andInternational Trade (hereinafter referred to as the Institute).

(2) The Institute shall, by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

163. The objects of the Institute shall be

(a)to be a platform for research and policy makingrelating to economics, international finance andinternational trade;

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaInstitute ofEconomics andInternationalTrade

Objects of theInstitute

129Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(b)to provide cutting edge research and studies in thefields of economics, international finance andinternational trade;

(c)to contribute ideas for stimulating policies andconcepts relating to economics, internationalfinance and international trade; and

(d)to research effective international trade and regionaltrade integration polices.

164. The powers, duties and functions of the Instituteshall be

(a)to initiate, promote and facilitate measures fordevelopment of knowledge and skills in economics,international finance and international trade studiesamong parliamentarians, public officers as may bespecified by rules and representatives of the privatesector;

(b)to arrange seminars, lectures, face-to-face training,study tours, practitioner exchanges, peer-learningand other modes for the dissemination ofknowledge in economics, international finance andinternational trade among parliamentarians, seniorpublic officials and representatives of the privatesector;

(c)to foster dialogue and partnerships in the field ofstudies of economics, international finance andinternational trade among political leaders, publicofficers, academia, business leaders, donor agenciesand members of global institutions;

(d)to liaise with leaders of locally and globally reputedThink Tanks, experts, academics and resource

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Institute

130Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

persons in the fields of economics, internationalfinance and international trade within and outsideSri Lanka to deliver instructions and to participatein training activities;

(e)to undertake training and research on behalf ofParliament and State institutions including incollaboration with local Think Tanks and transformresearch outcomes to achievable action plans whichthe Government stakeholders may incorporate intheir planning exercises;

(f)to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash or kind:

Provided however, the Institute shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Institute;

(g)to open and maintain any account with any bank asit may think appropriate and such account shall beoperated in accordance with prevailing applicablewritten laws;

(h)to manage, control, administer and operate the Fundof the Institute;

(i)to invest such amount of money belonging to theInstitute as are not immediately required for thepurposes of this Part;

(j)to purchase, hold, take or give on lease or hire,mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of anymovable or immovable property;

131Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(k)to enter into and perform either directly or indirectlythrough any officer or agent of the Institute, allsuch contracts or agreements as may be necessary,for the exercise of the powers, performance of itsduties and the discharge of its functions;

(l)to make rules in respect of the administration of theaffairs of the Institute;

(m) to levy fees or charges for any service rendered bythe Institute;

(n)to appoint, employ, remunerate and exercisedisciplinary control over, such officers, servants andagents as may be necessary for the carrying out theobjects of the Institute;

(o)to train officers and employees of the Institutewithin or outside Sri Lanka; and

(p)do all such other acts which may be incidental orconducive to the attainment of the objects of thisPart or the exercise of the powers assigned to theInstitute under this Part.

CHAPTER XXXIV

ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE AFFAIRS

OF THE INSTITUTE

165. (1) The administration, management and control ofthe affairs of the Institute shall be vested in a Board ofGovernors (in this Part referred to as the Institute Board).

(2) The Institute Board shall, for the purpose ofadministering the affairs of the Institute, exercise, performand discharge the powers, duties and functions conferredon, assigned to or imposed on the Institute by this Part.

Administrationand managementof the Institute

132Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

166. The Institute Board shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely:

(i)the Secretary to the Treasury or his nomineewho shall be an officer not below the rank ofa Director General of a Department in theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subjectof Finance;

(ii)a nominee of the Economic Commission;

(iii)the Ambassador for International Trade;

(b)three members appointed by the Minister who shallpossess academic and professional qualificationsand has experience in one or more of the fields ofEconomics, International Finance and InternationalTrade Studies; and

(c)the following nominated members: -

(i)a member nominated by the Ceylon Chamberof Commerce established by CeylonChamber of Commerce Ordinance(Chapter 289);

(ii)a member nominated by the Federation ofChambers of Commerce and Industry of SriLanka registered under the Companies Act,No. 07 of 2007; and

(iii)a Professor of Economics nominated by theUniversity Grants Commission established bythe Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.

Constitution ofthe InstituteBoard

133Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

167. (1) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers to be the Chairperson of the Institute Board.

(2) The Chairperson may resign from his office by letteraddressed to the Minister and such resignation shall beeffective from the date on which it is accepted by theMinister.

(3) The Minister may, for reasons assigned in writingremove the Chairperson from the office of the Chairperson.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairperson shall be the period ofhis membership of the Institute Board.

(5) Where the Chairperson is temporarily unable toexercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties andfunctions of his office due to ill health, other infirmity,absence from Sri Lanka or any other cause, the Minister mayappoint any other appointed member to act as the Chairpersonin addition to his normal duties as an appointed member.

168. A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Institute Board, if he

(a)is or becomes a member of Parliament or of anyProvincial Council or of any local authority;

(b)is not or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or any othercountry found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d)is a person who having been declared insolvent orbankrupt under any law in force in Sri Lanka and isan undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;

Chairperson ofthe InstituteBoard

Disqualificationsfrom being amember of theInstitute Board

134Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(e)is subject to an ongoing investigation in respect ofan offence involving dangerous drugs, narcoticdrugs or psychotropic substances or fraud;

(f)is serving or has served a sentence of imprisonmentof more than six months imposed by any court inSri Lanka or any other country;

(g)holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Institute; or

(h)has any financial or other interest as is likely toaffect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Institute Board.

169. Every appointed member of the Institute Board shall,unless he vacates office earlier by resignation, death orremoval, hold office for a period of three years from the dateof his appointment and unless is removed from office shallbe eligible for reappointment for not more than one furtherterm, whether consecutive or otherwise.

170. (1) Any appointed member of the Institute Boardmay at any time, resign from his office by a letter to thateffect, addressed to the Minister, and such resignation shallbe effective from the date on which it is accepted by theMinister in writing.

(2) Where any appointed member by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka is temporarily unable todischarge the functions of his office, the Minister may,having regard to the provisions of sections 166 and 168,appoint some other person to act in his place.

(3) The Minister may for reasons assigned in writing,remove an appointed member from office. An appointed

Term of office

Resignation andremoval

135Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

member who has been removed from office shall not beeligible for reappointment as a member of the Institute Boardor to serve the Institute Board in any other capacity.

(4) Where an appointed member dies, resigns or isremoved from office, the Minister may, having regard to theprovisions of sections 166 and 168, appoint another personin his place and the person so appointed shall hold office forthe unexpired period of the term of office of the memberwhom he succeeds.

171. (1) The meetings of the Institute Board shall be heldat least once in every month and the quorum for a meeting ofthe Institute Board shall be three members.

(2) The Chairperson shall preside at every meeting of theInstitute Board. In the absence of the Chairperson from anymeeting of the Institute Board, a member elected by themembers present shall preside at such meeting.

(3) A meeting of the Institute Board may be held either-

(a)by the number of members who constitute a quorumbeing assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting aquorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.

(4) All questions for a decision at any meeting of theInstitute Board shall be decided by the vote of the majorityof members present at such meeting. In the case of an equalityof votes, the Chairperson or the presiding member shall, inaddition to his vote have a casting vote.

Quorum andmeetings of theInstitute Board

136Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(5) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,the Institute Board may regulate the procedure in relation tothe meetings of the Institute Board and the transaction ofbusiness at such meetings.

172. The Institute Board may act, notwithstanding anyvacancy among its members and any act or proceeding ofthe Institute Board shall not be or deemed to be invalid byreason only of the existence of any vacancy among itsmembers or any defect in the appointment of a memberthereof.

173. The members of the Institute Board shall be paidremuneration in such manner and at such rates as may bedetermined by the Minister, with the concurrence of theMinister assigned the subject of Finance.

174. (1) The seal of the Institute

(a)shall be in the custody of such person as the InstituteBoard may determine from time to time;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Institute Board; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept with the sanction of the Institute Board andin the presence of the Chairperson and one othermember of the Institute Board who shall sign theinstrument or document in token of their presence:

Provided however, where the Chairperson isunable to be present at the time when the seal of theInstitute is affixed to any instrument or document,

Acts orproceedings ofthe InstituteBoard deemednot to be invalidby reason of anyvacancy

Remunerationof themembers ofthe InstituteBoard

Seal of theInstitute

137Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

any other member of the Institute Board authorisedin writing by the Chairperson in that behalf shallbe competent to sign such instrument or documentin accordance with the preceding provisions of thissubsection.

(2) The Institute shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the Institutehas been affixed.

CHAPTER XXXV

DIRECTOR AND THE STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE

175. (1) There shall be a Director of the Institute appointedby the Minister, in consultation with the Institute Board.The Director, unless he vacates office earlier by death, byoperation of law, resignation or removal shall hold office fora term of five years and shall be eligible for reappointmentsubject to a maximum period of any two terms of officewhether consecutive or otherwise.

(2) The qualifications and experience of the person whoshall be appointed as the Director and the terms andconditions of employment of the Director shall be asprescribed by regulation.

(3) The Director shall, subject to the general directionsand supervision of the Institute Board

(a)be charged with the administration of the affairs ofthe Institute including the administration andcontrol of the staff;

(b)be responsible for the execution of all decisions ofthe Institute Board; and

(c)carry out all such functions as may be assigned tohim by the Institute Board.

Appointment ofan AdvisoryCommittee

138Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(4) The Director shall be present and speak at any meetingof the Institute Board, but shall not be entitled to vote atsuch meeting.

(5) The Director may, with the approval of the InstituteBoard, wherever he considers it necessary to do so, delegatein writing to any officer or employee of the Institute, any ofhis powers, duties or functions conferred or imposed on, orassigned to him by this Part and the officer or employee towhom any such power, duty or function is delegated shallexercise, perform or discharge them, subject to the directionsof the Director.

(6) The Minister may, on the recommendation of theInstitute Board, remove the Director from office

(a)if he becomes permanently incapable of performinghis duties;

(b)if he had done any act which the Institute Boardhas decided to be of a fraudulent or illegal characteror is prejudicial to the interests of the Institute; or

(c)has failed to comply with any direction issued bythe Institute Board.

176. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the Institutemay employ or appoint such officers and employees as maybe necessary for the efficient exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions.

(2) The Director and the staff of the Institute shall beremunerated in such manner and at such rates, and shall besubject to such conditions of service as may be determinedby the Minister, in consultation with the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance.

Staff of theInstitute andremuneration

139Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

177. (1) At the request of the Institute any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and thePublic Service Commission be temporarily appointed to thestaff of the Institute for such period as may be determined bythe Institute or with like consent, be permanently appointedto such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to such officer.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Institute employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service to the Institute by that person shall beregarded as service to the Government, for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

178. (1) At the request of the Institute, any officer oremployee of any higher educational Institution establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 may, with theconsent of that officer or employee and the principalexecutive officer of that higher educational institution betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute. Suchappointment shall be for a period as may be determined bythe Institute or with the consent be permanently appointedto such staff, on such terms and conditions including thoserelating to pension or provident fund rights, as may be agreedupon by the Institute and such principal executive officer.

Appointment ofpublic officer tothe staff of theInstitute

Appointment ofofficial fromhighereducationalinstitution to theInstitute

140Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Where any officer is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Institute under subsection (1), such person shall besubject to the same disciplinary control as any other memberof the staff of the Institute.

179. (1) The Institute Board may

(a)appoint an Advisory Committee as it may considernecessary or appropriate constituting of suchpersons selected from among persons havingacademic or professional qualifications orrepresenting professional institutions or non-governmental organizations to assist it in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Part; and

(b)obtain the services of any expert outside itspermanent staff, as advisors or consultants.

(2) The Institute Board may assign to an AdvisoryCommittee established under subsection (1), such of itspowers, duties or functions as it may consider necessary,however, the Institute Board shall not be divested of anysuch power, duty or function so assigned. The Institute Boardshall have the power to amend or revoke any decision madeby an Advisory Committee.

(3) (a) It shall be the duty of the Institute Board to ensurethat no person who has a conflict of interest or is in a positionto exercise undue influence on any decision that the InstituteBoard is called upon to make under this Part or anyregulations or rules made thereunder, is appointed undersubsection (1) as a member of the Advisory Committee or asan expert.

(b) For the purpose of this subsection undue influencemeans manipulating or coercing the Institute Board inmaking its decisions it would not willingly undertake undernormal circumstances.

Appointment ofan AdvisoryCommittee

141Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(4) The members of the Advisory Committee and anyexpert under subsection (1) may be paid out of the Fund ofthe Institute, such allowance as the Minister may determinewith the concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance.

(5) The Institute Board shall make rules for the procedurein regard to the meetings of the Advisory Committee andthe transaction of business at such meetings.

180. (1) For the purposes of this Part, the Institute Boardmay appoint a Team of Instructors and an Operations Teamfrom universities and public institutions that produceeconomic, international finance and international tradeknowledge and from privately funded independent ThinkTanks on secondment basis.

(2) Any person appointed to the Team of Instructors andthe Operations Team, as the case may be, shall be subject tothe provisions of this Part.

(3) The members of the Team of Instructors and theOperations Team shall be paid remuneration in such mannerand at such rates as may be determined by the Minister withthe concurrence of the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance.

CHAPTER XXXVI

FINANCE

181. (1) The Institute shall have its own Fund (hereinafterreferred to as the Fund).

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund

Team ofInstructors andOperationsTeam

Fund of theInstitute

142Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)all sums of money as may be voted from time totime by Parliament, for the use of the Institute;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Part;and

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute by way of income, fees, charges, grants,gifts or donations from any source whatsoeverwhether within or outside Sri Lanka:

Provided that, the Institute shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources of the Ministry of the Minister assignedthe subject of Finance, in respect of all foreigngrants, gifts or donations made to the Institute.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as are required to defrayany expenditure incurred by the Institute in theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers,duties and functions under this Part; and

(b)all such sums of money as are required to be paidout of the Fund by or under this Part.

182. (1) The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Institute Board shall cause proper books ofaccounts to be kept of the income and expenditure, assetsand liabilities and all other transactions of the Institute.

Financial yearand audit ofaccounts

143Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionand the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018 relating to theaudit of the accounts of public corporations shall apply tothe audit of accounts of the Institute.

(4) The Institute Board shall submit the auditedstatement of accounts together with the auditors report tothe Minister within one hundred and fifty days of the end ofthe financial year to which such report relates. The Ministershall place such statement and the report before Parliamentwithin two months of the receipt thereof.

CHAPTER XXXVII

GENERAL PROVISIONS

183. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst any member of the Institute Board, the Director, anyofficer or employee of the Institute or any member of theAdvisory Committee, Team of Instructors or an OperationsTeam, for any act which in good faith is done or purported tobe done by him under this Part or on the directions of theInstitute or the Institute Board, as the case may be, if heproves that he acted in good faith and exercised duediligence, reasonable care and skill.

184. (1) Every member of the Institute Board, the Director,and every officer or employee of the Institute or everymember of the Advisory Committee, Team of Instructors orOperations Team, shall, before entering into the duties ofhis office sign a declaration that he will not disclose anyinformation received by him or coming to his knowledge inthe exercise, performance and discharge of his powers, dutiesand functions under this Part except for the purpose of givingeffect to the provisions of this Part to the extent permittedunder the provisions of the Right to Information Act, No. 12of 2016.

Protection foraction takenunder this Part

Duty tomaintainSecrecy

144Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) commits an offence under this Part, and shallbe liable on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrateto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees orimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingtwelve months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

185. (1) The Institute shall create, manage and maintaina database of all information collected under the provisionsof this Part.

(2) The Institute shall take all necessary steps includingtechnical safeguards to ensure the security of all its databasesand data.

186. The Institute shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Anti- Corruption Act,No. 9 of 2023 and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

187. All members of the Institute Board, AdvisoryCommittee, Team of Instructors and Operations Team, theDirector and all officers and employees of the Institute shallbe deemed to be public servants within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

188. The Minister may, from time to time, issue to theInstitute Board general or special directions as to theexercise, performance and discharge of the powers, dutiesand functions of the Institute Board.

189. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Part, the InstituteBoard may make rules in respect of all or any of the followingmatters: -

Database

Institute deemedto be ascheduledinstitution

Members,Director,officers andemployees ofthe Institutedeemed to bepublic servants

Directions of theMinister

Rules

145Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(a)all matters for which rules are authorized or requiredto be made under this Part;

(b)the meetings of the Institute Board and theAdvisory Committee and the procedure to befollowed at such meetings; and

(c)the appointment, promotion, remuneration anddisciplinary control of officers and employees andthe grant of leave and other emoluments to officersand employees.

(2) Every rule made by the Institute shall be approved bythe Minister and published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of its publication or on such laterdate as may be specified therein.

190. (1) The Minister shall make regulations for thepurpose of carrying out and giving effect to the principlesand provisions of this Part.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister within threemonths after its publication in the Gazette be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation is sodisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

191. In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires-

Minister means the Minister assigned the subjectand function of the Institute under Article 44 or45 of the Constitution;

Regulations

Interpretation

146Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Think Tank means a policy institute or a researchinstitute that performs research and advocacy inthe fields of economics, international financeand international trade.

PART VII

CHAPTER XXXVIII

MISCELLANEOUS

192. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with theEconomic Commission, make regulations in respect of allmatters which are required by this Act to be prescribed or inrespect of which regulations are required or authorized to bemade under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,within three months from the date of its publication in theGazette, be placed before Parliament for approval. Everyregulation which is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

193. (1) The Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4of 1978 is hereby repealed (in this Act referred to as therepealed Law).

Repeals andsavings

Regulations

147Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 -

(a)every reference to the repealed law or any provisionthereof in any other written law shall be construedas a reference to Part II, Part III or this Part or thecorresponding provisions contained in Part II, PartIII or this Part, as the case may be;

(b)every reference to the BOI in any other written lawshall be construed as a reference to the EconomicCommission or Zones SL in the correspondingprovisions in Part II or Part III, as the case may be;

(c)the members of the Board of the BOI under therepealed Law, functioning as such on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall bedeemed to be the members of the Board of theEconomic Commission for the purposes of Part II,Part III and this Part until a new Board of theEconomic Commission is appointed under Part II;

(d)all approvals, licences, authorizations andpermissions issued by the BOI and in force on theday immediately preceding the appointed dateshall, subject to such modifications as agreedbetween the Economic Commission or Zone SL, asthe case may be and the investor continue to bevalid and in force;

(e)all approvals, licences, authorisations andpermissions issued and contracts, agreements orother instruments entered into under any otherwritten law for the purpose of promoting andfacilitating investment and in force on the day

148Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

immediately preceding the appointed date shall,subject to such modifications as agreed betweenthe Economic Commission or Zone SL, as the casemay be and the investor continue to be valid andin force;

(f)all regulations, rules, directives and Orders madeunder the repealed Law and in force on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed date shall, inso far as such regulations, rules, directives andOrders are not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Act shall be deemed to be made under this Act,and such regulations, rules, directives and Ordersmay be amended, rescinded or altered byregulations, rules, directives or Orders made underthis Act;

(g)all property, both movable and immovable, whichwere owned by or was in the possession of the BOIin terms of the repealed Law-

(i)and existing on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, subjectto the provisions of subparagraph (ii), witheffect from the appointed date be deemed tobe the property of or be in the possession ofthe Economic Commission, as the case maybe; and

(ii)in respect of licensed zones and existing onthe day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall, with effect from the appointed datebe deemed to be the property of or be in thepossession of the Zones SL, as the casemay be;

149Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(h)all contracts, agreements and other instrumentsentered into by or with the BOI under the repealedLaw -

(i)and subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, subjectto the provisions of subparagraph (ii), bedeemed to be contracts, agreements andinstruments entered into by or with or for theEconomic Commission and all rights,privileges, obligations, debts and liabilitiesof the BOI subsisting on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall be deemedto be rights, privileges, obligations, debts andliabilities of the Economic Commission underPart II; and

(ii)in respect of licensed zones and enterpriseslocated therein and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed dateshall be deemed to be contracts, agreementsand instruments entered into by or with or forthe Zones SL and all rights, privileges,obligations, debts and liabilities of the BOIin respect thereof subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed dateshall be deemed to be rights, privileges,obligations, debts and liabilities of the ZonesSL under Part III;

(i)any application made under the provisions of therepealed Law-

(i)shall, subject to the provisions ofsubparagraph (ii), with effect from theappointed date be deemed to be

150Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

an application made to the EconomicCommission established under Part II andshall be dealt with accordingly; and

(ii)relating to licensed zones and enterpriseslocated therein shall, with effect from theappointed date be deemed to be anapplication made to the Zones SL establishedunder Part III and shall be dealt withaccordingly;

(j)all sums of money lying to the credit of the Fund ofthe BOI and existing on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, with effect fromthe appointed date stand transferred to the Fund ofthe Economic Commission established underPart II;

(k)all suits, actions or other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the BOI-

(i)and pending on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, subjectto the provisions of subparagraph (ii), bedeemed, with effect from the appointed dateto be suits, actions or other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the EconomicCommission; and

(ii)in respect of licensed zones or enterpriseslocated therein, with regard to the matters thatfall within the purview of the Zones SL andpending on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date shall, be deemed witheffect from the appointed date to be suits,actions or other legal proceedings institutedby or against the Zones SL under Part III:

151Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

Provided however, any suit, action orother legal proceeding instituted by oragainst the BOI pertaining to matters that fallwithin the purview of both the EconomicCommission and Zones SL and pending onthe day immediately preceding the appointeddate shall, with effect from the appointed datebe deemed to be suits, actions and other legalproceedings instituted by or against both theEconomic Commission and Zones SL;

(l)all interests, rights, assets, obligations, debts andliabilities of the BOI-

(i)and pending on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date shall, subjectto the provisions of subparagraph (ii), bedeemed with effect from the appointed dateto be the interests, rights, assets, obligations,debts and liabilities of the EconomicCommission; and

(ii)in respect of licensed zones and enterpriseslocated therein and pending on the dayimmediately preceding the appointed dateshall be deemed, with effect from theappointed date deemed to be interests, rights,assets, obligations, debts and liabilities of theZones SL;

(m)the officers and employees of the BOI, holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding theappointed date -

152Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(i)shall be deemed, with effect from theappointed date to be officers and employeesof the Economic Commission, on terms andconditions not less favourable than the termsand conditions of employment to which theywere entitled; and

(ii)attached to licensed zones, shall be deemed,with effect from the appointed date to beofficers and employees of the Zones SL, onterms and conditions not less favourable thanthe terms and conditions of employment towhich they were entitled:

Provided that the period that an employeeserved with the BOI shall be taken intoconsideration when calculating the statutorypayments that are payable to such employee;

(n)the officers and employees of the BOI, holdingoffice on the day immediately preceding theappointed date who do not opt to join the serviceof the Economic Commission or the Zones SL, shallbe paid such compensation in terms of a voluntaryretirement scheme as shall be prescribed by theMinister:

Provided that such voluntary retirement schemeshall be published on a date not more than onemonth after the appointed date and every officer oremployee deemed to be an officer or employee ofthe Economic Commission or Zones SL underparagraph (m) shall communicate his option withinone month of the date of publication of thevoluntary retirement scheme.

153Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

(3) Without prejudice to the powers vested in theEconomic Commission or Zones SL under this Act, theEconomic Commission or Zones SL, as the case may be,shall continue to exercise all powers exercised by the BOI inrespect of and over Areas of Authority, licensed zones,licensed enterprises and area enterprises, established in termsor under the authority of the repealed Law. Without limitingthe general powers that shall be exercised by the EconomicCommission or Zones SL, as the case may be, in that respect,the powers set out in the repealed Law under sections 5, 16,17, 18, 20, 20A, 21, 22, 22A, and 24 shall continue with fullforce and effect:

Provide however, the provisions of this subsectionshall not be in derogation of the powers or functionsexercised or discharged by the Economic Commission orZones SL, as the case may be, in relation to the managementor operation of Areas of Authority, licensed zones, licensedenterprises and area enterprises, as the case may be.

(4) The Economic Commission shall have the power tomake by-laws for the purpose of amending, rescinding oraltering all by-laws deemed to be made by the BOI and allby-laws made by the BOI under sections 21 and 22 of therepealed Law and in force on the day immediately precedingthe appointed date.

194. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires-

Area of Authority means the Area of authorityreferred to in section 5 of the repealed Law;

area enterprise means an enterprise with whichthe BOI has entered into an agreement undersection 17 of the repealed Law and which carrieson business or is proposing to carry on businesswithin the Area of Authority;

Interpretation

154Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

BOI means the Board of Investment of Sri Lankaestablished by the repealed Law;

enterprise means any sole proprietorship,partnership, company or cooperative societywherever registered or incorporated under anylaw for the time being in force relating tocompanies, corporative societies or businessand engage in or proposing to engage in anybusiness which in the opinion of the BOI wouldachieve or assist in the achievement of theobjects of the BOI;

licensed zones means the licensed zones referredto in section 5 of the repealed Law;

licensed enterprises means the licensed enterprisesreferred to in section 5 of the repealed Law;

Minister for the purpose of Parts II and III and thisPart means the Minister assigned the subjectand function relating to the EconomicCommission and Zones SL under Article 44 or45 of the Constitution;

zone developer means a person who is assignedthe development of an investment zone; and

zone operator means a person who manages adeveloped investment zone.

195. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

155Economic TransformationAct, No. 45 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.