PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
TURNOVER TAX (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 6 OF 1989
[Certified on 11th May, 1989)
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part IT of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 12, 1985
aS aan ns Enea Pakoaoees eam,
Price : 60 cents. Postage : 75 cems.


Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act No. 6 of 1989
{Certified on 11th May, 1909]
LD—O 14/89
An Act To AMEND THE Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 or 1981
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Turnover Tax (Amend- Short title,
ment) Act, No. 6 of 1989,

2. Section 46 of the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1961 Amendment
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is of section
hereby amended in subsection (2) thereof, by the repeal of No. 69
paragraph (f) of that subsection, and the substitution of the °f 1961.
following paragraph therefor: — bi

“(f) the turnover tax attributable to such transaction

and the withholding turnover tax deducted under
section 50a; and”,

3. The following new Chapter is hereby inserted imme- Insertion
diately after Chapter XV, and shall have effect as Chapter Ghanter
XVA of the principal enactment :— pee

enact
. ‘CHAPTER XVA ment,
DEDUCTION OF WITHHOLDING TURNOVER TAX ON
SALES BY IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Miding turn. 50a. (1) Notwithstanding anything in this
ta
eal Act, where any—
ters and (a) such importer as is referred to in sec-
‘eturers. tion 12; or
() manufacturer,
sells, in the course of carrying on business
as such importer or manufacturer, on or after
April 1, 1989, any article (other than an
excepted article) to any person (hereinafter
called the “buyer”) he shall deduct a tax
(bereinafter called the “withholding turn-
over tax”) calculated at one per centum of
the amount received or receivable on such
sale where such amount forms part of the
turnover, within the meaning of section 5, of
such importer or manufacturer.


2 Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 1939
(2) Every importer or manufacturer who
y deducts withholding turnover tax in accor-
dance with the provisions of subsection (1)
of this section shall—
+, (a) issue to the buyer of such article, a
voucher setting out—
(i) his name and postal address ;

(i) the name and postal address of
the buyer;

(iii) the amount of money received
or receivable in respect of the
transaction of sale ;

(iv) the date on which the transac-
tion was entered into ;

(v) the withholding turnover tax at-

: tributable to such transaction
of sale; and

(vi) any other particulars he is
required to set out under sec-
tion, 46 (2) ; and

() remit to the Commissioner-General,
the. sum deducted as withholding
turnover tax together with the turn-
over tax payable by him for the

. quarter during. which the transac-

(2 “tion, in respect of which withholding

turnover tax was deducted, took
‘ place. a
"..8) Where the, turnover of any person
liable to turnover tax includes a sum receivea
or receivable on the sale of an article in
respect of which withholding turnover tax
has been deducted, as hereinbefore provided,


_ Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 1989 3

_ he shall be entitled on production of the

voucher relating to such withholding turn-

over tax issued to him under subsection (2),

| to set-off the withholding turnover tax set

_., + Out in such voucher against the turnover tax
payable by him :

Saale Provided that no such set-off shall be al-
lowed in the case of withholding turnover
tax deducted in respect of—

(@ any plant, machinery, fixtures, build-
ings, vehicles or other capital assets

. purchased for use in any business ; or

: (b) any articles purchased—

\  @) for use in any business which is
exempt from turnover tax
under section 4; or

(i) for use in the manufacture of any
excepted articles. .

*  @) Any excess of the withholding turn-
over tax deducted under this section over the
turnover tax payable by any person against
which such withholding turnover tax may
be set-off under subsection (3), shall not Be
refunded to that person but may be deducted
from the turnover tax payable by that per-
son for the subsequent year and so on.

Apeticr- 50z. The provisions of this Act relating to

Brovisions the furnishing of returns, levy, recovery, im-

‘Ret to position of penalties for default and to the

fine’ refund of the turnover tax, shall, mutatis

over tax mutandis, apply to the furnishing of returns,
levy, recovery, imposition of penalties for de-
fault, and refund, relating to, or of, the with-
holding turnover tax payable under this
Chapter.’.


4° “Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 1989
Amendment 4, Section 53 of the prineipal enactment is hereby amend-
$3 of the ed in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitution for
values the words and figures ‘subsection (1) of section 50; or”,
‘ment. of the words and figures “subsection (1) of section 56 or

subsection (1) or subsection (2) of section 50a; or”,
Sinhala 5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
Prevail and ‘Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
sistency.
