PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
5th Session 1969-70

Explosives (Amendment)
Act, No. 33 of 1969

Date of Assent: December 9, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part II of December 12, 1969

Printed at the DePARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CryLon. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PuBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40

Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT

CATIONS BuREAU, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th

December each year in respect of the year following. Late

subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
' issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


}

(

Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1969
L. D.—O. 18/66.

An ACT TO AMEND THE EXPLOSIVES Act.
[Date of Assent: December 9, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

14. This Act may be cited as the Explosives
(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1969.

2. The long title of the Explosives Act (hereinafter
referred to as the “‘ principal Act’’) is hereby
amended, by the substitution, for the expression
‘* Importation, Possession, Sale, ’’, of the expression
‘‘ Importation, Exportation, Possession, Sale, Expo-
sure for Sale, ’’.

3. Section 8 of the principal Act is hereby
repealed and the following new section substituted
therefor : —

~ Prohibition 8. (1) No person, other than a
exportation, _—«rLicensee or permittee who is authorized
panutachang, & by his licence or permit to do so, shall
arposite, 2E import or export any explosive.

ate és (2) No person, other than a licensee

explosives, by who is authorized by his licence to do so,
iran licensees © SHAll manufacture, sell, expose for sale

or permittees. or supply any explosive.’’.

4. Section 9 of the principal Act is hereby

amended as follows : —

(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substi-
tution, for the expression ‘‘ manufacturer,
importer or supplier of any explosives, or
acquire, possess, transport’’, of the
expression ‘manufacturer, importer,
exporter or supplier of any explosives, or
acquire, possess, transport, sell, expose for
sale ’’;

(2) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ acquire,
possess, transport or use ’’, of the expres-
sion ‘‘ import, export, acquire, possess,
transport or use ’’; and

B 696t1—6,728 (12/60)

Short title.

Amendment of
the long
title of
Chapter 188.

Replacement of
section 8 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
peotion 9 of
the principat
Act. *


Amendment of
section 10 of
the principal

Act.

Amendment of
section 11 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
section 12 of
the principal
Act.

2 Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1969

(3) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following new marginal
note : —

‘*Licences and permits relating to ~
explosives.’’. \

5. Section 10 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows: —

(1) by the substitution, for the expression
“quantity of safety cartridges or fireworks
as does not exceed the prescribed quantity.’’,
of the expression ‘‘ quantity of any class of
explosives as does not exceed the quantity’
prescribed in respect of such class of
explosives.”’; and

(2) by the substitution, for the marginal note to
that section, of the following new marginal
note : —

‘* Exemption up to prescribed quantity
of any class of explosives.’’.

6. Section 11 of the principal Act is hereby

amended as follows: —

(1) in paragraph (b) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression “‘ importa-
tion,’’, of the expression ‘‘ importation, ,
exportation, sale, exposure for sale,’’; \

(2) by the relettering of paragraphs (c) and (d) of
that section as paragraphs (d) and (e) of that.
section, respectively; and

(3) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph.
(b) of that section, of the following new
paragraph :—

‘* (c) to exempt, subject to such conditions as.
may be imposed, any school or other
educational institution from the
requirement of obtaining a permit for
the acquisition, possession, transpor-
tation or use of any class or classes of
explosives ;’’.

7. Section 12 of the principal Act is hereby

amended as follows: —

(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the;
substitution, in paragraph (b) of that sub-
section, for the expression “‘ transport an
sell’’, of the expression ‘‘ transport, sell.
expose for sale ’’;


Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1969 3

(2) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the
substitution, In paragraph (6) of that sub-
section, for the expression “‘ transport and
sell ’’, of the expression ‘‘ transport, sell,
expose for sale ’’;

(3) by the renumbering of sub-sections (8) and (4)
of that section as sub-sections (4) and (5) of"
that section, respectively;

(4) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(2) of that section, of the following new
sub-section : —

‘* (8) A licence granted for the purpose
of carrying on the business of an exporter
of explosives shall, subject to the condi-
tions set out in the licence and the provi-
sions of this Act and of the regulations
made under this Act, authorize the
licensee—

(a) to export explosives of the class or
classes specified in the licence, and

(b) to acquire, possess and transport the
explosives to be exported under the
authority of the licence.’’;

» (5) inthe renumbered sub-section (4) of that section,
by the substitution, in paragraph (6) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘‘ transport
and sell’’, of the expression ‘‘ transport,
sell, expose for sale ’’; ;

(6) in the renumbered sub-section (5) of that
section, by the substitution,—

(a) for the expression ‘‘ A permit shall,’’,
of the expression ‘‘ A permit, other
than a permit granted for the import-
ation or exportation of explosives,
shall,’’; and

(0) for the expression “‘ class so specified. ”’,
of the expression ‘‘ class or classes
specified.’’; and

(7) by the insertion, immediately after the
renumbered sub-section (5) of that section,
< of the following new sub-sections : —

(6) A permit granted for the
importation of any explosives shall, subject
-to the conditions set out in the permit and
2——B 60511 (12/69)


4 Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1969

the provisions of this Act and of the
regulations made under this Act, authorize
the permittee to import explosives of the
class or classes specified in the permit and
to possess, transport and use the explosives —
imported under the authority of the
permit.

(7) A permit granted for the exportation
of any explosives shall, subject to the
conditions set out in the permit and the
provisions of this Act and of the regula-
tions made under this Act, authorize the
permittee to export explosives of the class
or classes specified in the permit and to
acquire, possess and transport the explo-
sives to be exported under the authority
of the permit.’’.

Amendment of 8. Section 14 of the principal Act is hereby
gee amended as follows: —

Act. . : : 7
° (1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the substi-

tution, for paragraph (a) of that sub-section,
of the following new paragraph:— -

‘* (a) who is convicted of any offence under
any of the sections of the Penal Code
enumerated in the Schedule to this
Act, or under the Offensive Weapons
Act, No. 18 of 1966, or ’’; and

(2) in sub-section (3) of that section—

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (b) of that
sub-section, for the expression ‘‘ was used ’’,
of the expression ‘‘ was used, or ’’; and

(b) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(b) of that sub-section, of the following new
paragraphs : —

‘* (ce) when (for reasons to be recorded by
him in writing) the licensing
authority deems it necessary for the
security of the public peace to refuse
to issue a licence or permit to an
applicant, or

(d) if the licensing authority is satisfied that
the possession and use of explosives
by an applicant is dangerous to the
life or property of any other person or
persons. ’’.


Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 83 of 1969 5

9. Section 16 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows: —

(1) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(4) of that section, of the following new sub-
section : —

‘(5) The Controller may in such
circumstances as he may deem necessary,
cause the issue of copies of licences or
permits issued under this Act to the
holders thereof on payment of the
prescribed fee. ’’; and

(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the sub-
stitution, for the expression ‘and
permits. ’’, of the expression ‘‘ and permits
and copies thereof. ’’.

40. Section 18 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows :— ;

(1) in sub-section (1) of that section, by the
substitution, for the expression ‘‘ within
thirty days’, of the expression ‘‘ not less
than thirty days ’’;

(2) by the renumbering of sub-section (2) of that
section as sub-section (8) of that section; and

(3) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(1) of that section, of the following new sub-
section : —

‘© (2) Where any person fails to make
the necessary application for the renewal
of a licence within the time specified in
sub-section (1), the licensing authority ma:
in his discretion allow the renewal of suc

licence on payment, in addition to the fee |

prescribed for such licence, of a fine equal
to the amount of the fee prescribed for
such a licence. ”’.

41. Section 21 of the principal Act is hereby
amended, by the substitution, for sub-section (1) of
that section, of the following new sub-section :—

‘“*(1) (a) Where a licensee or permittee is
convicted by a court of an offence under any of
the sections of the Penal Code enumerated in the
Schedule to this Act, or under the Offensive

Amendment of
section 16 of

the principal

Act,

Amendment of
fetter 18 of
the principal
Act.

Amendment of
section 21 of
the principal

Act.


6 Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1969

Weapons Act, No. 18 of 1966, the court shall
cause notice of such conviction to be given to the
licensing authority who granted a licence or
permit to such licensee or permittee, and such.
licensing authority shall, upon receipt of such ¥
notice, by written order cancel that licence or
permit. Such order shall specify the grounds of
cancellation of such licence or permit.

(b) Where a licensee or permittee is convicted
by a court of an offence under this Act, or of any
offence under any other written law which was
committed in connection with the possession or
use of any gun or explosive or in the commission
of which any gun or explosive was used, the court
shall cause notice of such conviction to be given
to the licensing authority who granted a licence
or permit to such licensee or permittee, and such
licensing authority may, upon receipt of such
notice, by written order suspend that licence or
permit for a period specified in the order
or cancel that licence or permit. Such order shall
specify the grounds of suspension or cancellation
of such licence or permit. ’’.

ee rs 12. Section 25 of the principal Act is hereby
the principal amended as follows: —

Act. !
(1) by the substitution, for paragraph (a) of that
section, of the following new paragraph :—

** (a) enter and inspect any place, or stop,
enter and inspect any vehicle or
vessel in which —

(i) any explosive is manufactured,
possessed, used, supplied, sold,
exposed for sale, transported,
imported or exported under a
licence or permit, or

(ii) he has reason to believe that any
explosive has been or is
manufactured, possessed, used,
supplied, sold, exposed for’
sale, transported, imported or
exported in contravention of
this Act or of any regulations ©
made under this Act, or

(iii) he has reason to believe that any
explosive in a deteriorate
condition is possessed; ”’ ;


Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1969 7

(2) in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitu-
tion, for the expression ‘‘ value thereof;
and ’’, of the expression ‘‘ value thereof; ”’;

(3) by the relettering of paragraph (d) of that
section as paragraph (¢) of that section; and

(4) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
(c) of that section, of the following new
paragraph :—

‘* (d) where he has reason to believe that
any explosive found in any such place,
vehicle or vessel is in a deteriorated
condition—

(i) cause such explosive to be removed
from such place, vehicle or
vessel without payment there-
for; and

(ii) give directions as to the use or
disposal of such explosive;
and’’.

18. Section 26 of the principal Act is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the substi-
i} tution—

(a) in paragraph (a) of that sub-section,
for the expression ‘‘ sub-section (3);
and’’, of the expression ‘‘ sub-
section (5); and ’’; and

(b) in paragraph (0) of that sub-section, for
the expression ‘‘ for an analysis there-
of and a report on the results of the
analysis.’’, of the expression ‘‘ for
an analysis thereof and a certificate
specifying the results of the
analysis. *’;

(2) by the renumbering of sub-section (8) of that
section as sub-section (5) of that section;

(3) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(2) of that section, of the following new sub-

S sections :—
‘* (3) Where in any prosecution of a
person for an offence under this Act, a
certificate of the Government Analyst is

Amendment of
section 26 of
the. principal
Act.


8 Explosives (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1969

produced in court to the effect that he is
satisfied that an article in respect of which
the offence is alleged to have been commit-
ted is an explosive as defined in this Act,~
the court shall presume, until the contrary”
is proved, that the article in respect of
which the offence is alleged to have been
gormmtted3 is an explosive as defined in this
ct

(4) Where in any — of a per-
son for an offence under this Act, a certi-
ficate of the Government Analyst is pro-
duced in court to the effect that he is satis-
fied that an article in respect of which the
offence is alleged to have been committed
is not an authorized explosive as defined
in the regulations made under this Act,
the court shall presume, until the contrary
is proved, that the article in respect of
which the offence is alleged to have been
committed is not an authorized ‘explosive
as defined in the regulations made under
this Act. ’’; and

(4) in the renumbered sub-section (5) of that sec-
tion, by the substitution, in par agraph (a) of 2
that sub-section, for the expression ‘ period »
of fourteen days’’, of the expression
‘* period of three months ”

Amendment of 14. Section 27 of the principal Act is hereby

tie cbiccipal! amended as follows :—

Act. ’ : :

° (1) in sub-section (1) of that section, as follows :—

(2) by the substitution, in paragraph (0) of

that sub-section, for the expression
‘of a licence, ’’, of the expression
“ of a licence or permit, ’’; and

(b) by the substitution, for the expression
‘term not exceeding one year ’’, of
the expression ‘‘ term not exceeding

two years ’’; and

(2) in sub-section (2) of that section, by the substi- i
tution, in paragraph () of that sub-section,
for the expression ‘‘ of a licence, - of, the
expression ‘‘ of a licence or permit, ”’


Bauplosives (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1969 §

15.

Section 37 of the principal Act is hereby

“amended as follows: —

» (1) in the definition of “‘explosives °’ by the sub-

g

stitution, in paragraph (6) of that definition,
for the expression “by reason of its explo-
sive properties, ’’, of the expression “ by
reason of its explosive properties, or
any substance which, for the reason that it
develops explosive properties when in
contact with any other substance, ’’; and

(2) by the insertion, immediately after the defini-

tion of ‘ “explosives ” , of the following new
definition :—

“** Government Analyst ’’ includes an
Assistant Government Analyst;’

16. The following Schedule is hereby inserted
immediately after section 37 of the principal Act :—

“ SECTIONS 14 AND 21. SCHEDULE

Section of Penal Code. Nature of Offence.
414 to 126 (inclusive) ... Offences against the State.

WS to 133 (inclusive) and 185... Offences relating to the Army,

Navy and Air Force.

140, 141, 142, and 144 to 155 Unlawful assembly and
(inclusive) rioting.

219, 219,, 220 and 220a Gch Resistance to lawful appre-

sive) oe hension.
226 to 256 (inclusive) ... Offences relating to coin and
Government stamps.
296, 297, 298, 300, and 301 ... Culpable homicide, death by
negligence, &c.
315 to 324 (inclusive) ... Voluntarily causing hurt by
dangerous weapons, &c.
844 and 347 +. Criminal force.
367 to 871 (inclusive) ... Theft, theft of cattle, &c.
373 to 378 (inclusive) ... Extortion, &c.
280 to 385 (inclusive) «. Robbery, &.
997 ves ws. Criminal misappropriation.
9 to 892 (inclusive) but ex- a
cluding 392a and 3028 ... Criminal breach of trust.
1394 to 397 (inclusive) ... Dishonestly receiving stolen

property.

Amendment of
section 37 of

the principal

Act.

Insertion of
Schedule in
the principal
Act.


10 Beplosives (Amendment) Act, No. 38 of 1969

Section of Penal Code
400 to 403 (inclusive)

411 to 426 (inclusive)
438 to 451 (inclusive)

452 to 466 (inclusive)
478, to 478p (inclusive)

486 ae ont
101 to 1138 (inclusive) and 490

Nature of Offence

Cheating.

Mischief, &c. ”

House-trespass, lurking”
house-trespass, house-

breaking, &c.
Forgery, &c.
Offences relating to currency
notes and bank notes,
Criminal intimidation.
Abetting, conspiring, attempt-
ing, &c., to commit any
offence against the sections

of the Penal Code env-
merated in this Schedule.’’.
