PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

, — NATIONAL CHILD PROTECTION AUTHORITY
ACT, No. 50 OF 1998

[Certified on 12th November, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 13, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 3.75


National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

[Certified on 12th November, 1998]
L. D.—O. 9/97.
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL

CHILD PROTECTION AUTHORITY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
FORMULATING A NATIONAL POLICY ON THE PREVENTION OF CHILD

ABUSE AND THE PROTECTION AND TREATMENT OF CHILDREN WHO -

ARE VICTIMS OF SUCH ABUSE ; FOR THE CO-ORDINATION AND
MONITORING OF ACTION AGAINST ALL FORMS OF CHILD ABUSE ;
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

i. This Act may be cited as the National Child Protection
Authority Act, No. 50 of 1998 and shall come into operation
on such date as the Minister may, appoint by Order published
in the Gazette.

2. (1) There shall be established an Authority which shall
be called the National Child Protection Authority (hereinafter
in this Act referred to as the “Authority”).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1) be a body corporate and shall have perpetual
succession and a common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

3. The Authority shall consist of—

(a) the following members to be appointed by the
President (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
members”) —

(i) at least one but not exceeding two—
(A) senior psychiatrists ;

(B) senior paediatricians ;
2—D 049753—9,050 (07/98)

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of
the National Child
Protection
Authority.

Members of the
Authority.


2 National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(C) medical practitioners engaged in the
field of forensic medicine ;

(D) senior psychologists,

nominated by the Minister in charge of the subject
of Health ;

(ii) a senior officer of the Attorney-General’s
Department not below the rank of Senior State
Counsel nominated by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Justice ;

(iii) a senior officer of the Department of Police
not below the rank of Deputy Inspector
General nominated by the Minister in charge
of the subject of Defence ;

(iv) five members from persons who appear to the
President to have wide experience, capacity
and recognition in law, child welfare,
education or any other related field ; and

(b) the following ex-officio member, namely—

(i) the Commissioner of Probation and Child
Care ;

(ii) the Commissioner of Labour ; and
(iii) the Chairman of the Committee established,

by Article 40 of the Charter on the Rights of
the Child, for the purpose of implementing the

provisions of that Charter.
Disqualification 4. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
from being a or continuing as a member of the Authority if—

member,

(a) he is or becomes a member of Parliament or any
Provincial Council or any focal authority ; or


National Child Protection Authority 3
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(b) he is not, or ceases to be, a citizen of Sri
Lanka ; or

(c) he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any
other country found or declared to be of unsound
mind ; or

(d) he is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri Lanka or
any other country ; or

(e) he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under any
contract made by or on behalf of the Authority ; or

(f) he has any financial or other interest as is likely to
affect prejudicially the discharge by him of his
functions as a member of the Authority.

5. (1) Anappointed member of the Authority may resign
his office by letter addressed to the President and such
resignation shall be effective from the date on which it is
accepted by the President.

(2) The President may for reasons assigned remove an
appointed member of the Authority from office.

(3) Where a member of the Authority dies, resigns or is
removed from office, the President shall, having regard to the
provisions of section 3, appoint another member in his place.

_ (4) Amember appointed under subsection (3) shall hold
office for the unexpired part of the term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of
section 5 the term of office of an appointed member of the
Authority shall be three years and such member shal! be
eligible for re-appointment for one more term of office.

Removal and
resignation of
members.

Term of office of
members.


Remuneration ot
allowance of
members.

Chairman and
Deputy Chairman
of the Authority.

Meetings of the
Authority.

4 ‘National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

7. The members of the Authority shall be paid
remuneration or allowances out of the Fund of the Authority
at such rates as may be determined by the Minister.

8. (1) The President may appoint as the Chairman of the
Authority, a member who has proven experience and capacity
in the field of administration, management, law, child welfare,
education or other related field.

(2). The President may appoint another member as the
Deputy Chairman of the Authority.

(3) Ifthe Chairman or the Deputy Chairman is by reason
of illness or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office, the President may appoint
another member of the Authority to act in his place.

(4) The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman shall not
engage in any paid employment outside the duties of their
office, without the approval of the President.

9. (1) The Chairman of the Authority shall, if present
preside at every meeting of the Authority. In the absence of
the Chairman from any-such meeting, the Deputy Chairman
shall preside at such meeting. In the absence of both the
Chairman and the Deputy Chairman from any such meeting,
a member elected from among the members present shall
preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Authority shall be
six members.

(3) The Chairman or the Deputy Chairman or other
member presiding at any meeting of the Authority, shall in
addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section,
the Authority may regulate the procedure in regard to the
meetings of the Authority and the transaction of business of
such meetings.


National Child Protection Authority 5
Act, No. 50 of 1998

10. No act, decision or proceeding of the Authority, shall.
be deemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of
any vacancy of the Authority or any defect in the appointment
of any member thereof.

11. (1) The seal of the Authority may be determined
and devised by the Authority, and may be altered in such
manner as may be determined by the Authority.

(2) The seal of the Authority shall be in the custody of

such person as the Authority may decide from time to time, -
(3) The seal of the Authority shall not be affixed to any.

instrument or document except with the sanction of the
Authority and in the presence of the Chairman and one
member who shall sign the instrument or document in token
of their presence.

(4) The Authority shall maintain a register of the
instruments and documents to which the seal of the Authority
has been affixed.

12. In the exercise of its powers and the discharge of its
functions, the Authority shall comply with the policy of the
Government in relation to the protection and welfare of

children and with any general or special directions issued to -

it by the Minister in relation to the implementation of such
policy.

13. (1) The Authority may delegate any of the powers
and functions of the Authority to the Chairman and the Deputy
Chairman.

(2) The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman to whom any.
of the powers and functions of the Authority have been
delegated under subsection (1) shall exercise or discharge the
powers and functions so delegated, subject to the general or
special directions of the Authority.

14. The functions of the Authority shall be—

(2) to advise the Government in the formulation of a
national policy on the prevention of child abuse and
the protection and treatment of children who are
victims of such abuse ;

Acts not
invalidated by
reason of a

Authority to
exercise its
powers under the
direction of the

Minister.

Delegation of
powers and
functions of the
Authority.

Functions of the
Authority.


(6)
(c)

(d)

(e

—

(g

—

(h

—

~~
‘wae
—

()

(k)

National Child Protection Authority
. Act, No. 50 of 1998
to advise the Government on measures for the
prevention of child abuse :

to advise the Government on measures for the
protection of the victims of such abuse ;

to create an awareness, of the right of a child to be
protected from abuse and the methods of preventing
child abuse ;

to consult the relevant ministries, Provincial
Councils, local authorities, District and Divisional
Secretaries, public and private sector organizations
and recommend all such measures as are necessary,
for the purpose of preventing child abuse and for
protecting and safeguarding the interests of the
victims of such abuse ;

to recommend legal, administrative or other reforms
required for the effective implementation of the
national policy for the prevention of child abuse ;

to monitor the implementation of laws relating to
all forms of child abuse;

to monitor the progress of all investigations and
criminal proceedings relating to child abuse ;

to recommend measures to address the humanitarian
concerns relating to children affected by armed
conflict and the protection of such children, including
measures for their mental and physical well-being
and their re-integration into society ;

to take appropriate steps where necessary for
securing the safety and protection of children
involved in criminal investigations and criminal
Proceedings ,

to receive complaints from the public relating to child
abuse and where necessary, to refer such complaints
to the appropriate authorities ;


National Child Protection Authority 7
Act, No, 50 of 1998
(1) to advise and assist Provincial Councils and local
authorities, and non governmental organizations to
co-ordinate campaigns against child abuse ;

—

(m) to prepare and maintain a national data base on child

abuse ;

(n) inconsultation with the relevant ministries and other
authorities to supervise and monitor all religious and
charitable institutions which provide child care
services to children ;

to conduct, promote and co-ordinate, research in
relation to child abuse and child protection,

{o

—

—

(p

to provide information and education to the public
regarding the Safety of children and the protection
of the interests of children ;

(q) to engage in dialogue with all sections connected
with tourism with a view to minimising the
opportunities for child abuse ;

(r) to organise and facilitate, workshops, seminars and
discussions, relating to child abuse ;

(s) to liaise and exchange information with foreign
Governments and international organisations, with
respect to detection and prevention of all forms of
child abuse.

45. The Authority shall have the power— Powers of the
Authority.
(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose of, any
movable or immovable property ;

(b). to borrow, with or without security, moneys, on such
terms and conditions as may be approved by the
Minister, for the purpose of discharging .it’s
functions ;


8 National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(c) to accept gifts, grants or donations whether in cash
or otherwise, and to apply them for discharging its
functions ;

(d) to appoint such officers and servants as may be
necessary for carrying out the work of the
Authority ;

(e) to appoint sub-committees or to cordinate with units
at provincial level, for the effective discharge of its
functions;

(f) to determine the remuneration payable to the officers
and servants so appointed;

(g) to establish a social security scheme, and provide
welfare and recreational facilities for its officers and
servants;

(A) to enter into and perform all such contracts, whether
in or outside Sri Lanka, as may be necessary for the
exercise of the powers and the discharge of the
functions of the Authority;

(i) to make rules in respect of the administration of the
affairs of the Authority; and

(j) generally, to do all such other things as are necessary
to facilitate the proper discharge of the functions of

the Authority.
Panel of 16. (1) There shall be a Panel of officials (hereinafter
officials. referred to as “the Panel”).

(2) The Panel shall consist of the following officers:—

(a) an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Justice, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry;


(5)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

(A)

(i)

i)

National Child Protection Authority 9
Act, No. 50 of 1998

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Education, nominated by the
Secretary of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Defence, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Health, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Social Services, nominated by the
Secretary of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant

Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in chargé”
of the subject of Provincial Councils, nominated by

the Secretary of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Women’s Affairs, nominated by the
Secretary of such Ministry;

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Labour, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry ; ,

-an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant

Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Tourism, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry ; *

an officer not below the rank of a Senior Assistant
Secretary of the Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Media, nominated by the Secretary
of such Ministry.


Panel to assist in
the
implementation of
the decisions of
the Authority.

Authority to
advise the
Minister.

Staff of the
Authority.

10 National Child Protection Authority
~ Act, No. 50 of 1998

17. The officials of the Panel shall attend all meetings of
the Authority and assist the Authority in the implementation
of the decisions of the Authority.

18. The Minister may on the advise of the Authority issue
general or special directions to any Government departments.
or statutory institutions requiring any such department or
institution to carry out such acts relating to the prevention of
child abuse as are specified in such direction.

19. (1) The Authority may appoint officers and servants
as it considers necessary for the efficient discharge of its
functions.

(2) The officers and servants appointed under subsection
(1) shall be remunerated in such manner and at such rates and
shall be subject to such conditions of service as may be
determined by the Authority with the approval of the Minister.

(3) At the request of the Authority an officer in the public
service may, with the consent of the officer and the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject of
Public Administration, be temporarily appointed to the
Authority for such period as may be determined by the
Authority with like consent, or be permanently appointed to
such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (2) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply, to and in relation, to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is permanently
appointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions of
subsection (3) of section 14 of the National Transport
Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply, to and in relation, to him.


National Child Protection Authority 11
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(6) Where the Authority employs any person who has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Authority by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such agreement.

20. (1) The Authority shall have its own fund (hereinafter Fund of the
referred to as the “Fund”). Authority.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund—

(a) all such sums of money that may be made available
to the Authority out of the Consolidated Fund;

(b) all such sums of money that may be received by the
Authority in the exercise, performance and discharge
of its powers, duties and functions under this Act;
and

(c) all such sums of money received by the Authority
by way of gifts, grants or donations.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums as
are required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Authority in the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act or under any other
written law and all such sums as are required to be paid out of
the Fund.

21. Every donation made by money or otherwise to the Exemption from
Authority shall, for the purposes of paragraph (b) of subsection _°¢ttain taxes.
(2) of section 31 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979
be deemed to be a donation made in money or otherwise to a
fund established by the Government.

22. (1) The financial year of the Authority shall be the Financial year and
calendar year. audit of accounts.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Authority.


Declaration of
secrecy.

Returns and
information.

1Z National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

23. Every member of the Authority and all officers and
servants of the Authority, shall before entering upon his duties,
sign a declaration pledging himself to observe strict secrecy
in respect of all matters connected with the affairs of the
Authority, and shall by such declaration pledge himself not
to disclose any matter which may come to his knowledge in
the performance or discharge of his duties and functions
relating to the identity of any victim of child abuse except—

(a) when required to do so by a court of law ; or

(b) by any person or body of persons to whom such
matters relates ; or

(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act, or any other law.

24. (1) For the purpose of enabling the Authority to
exercise, perform and discharge any of the powers, duties and
functions under section 14 and section 15 of this Act, the
Authority or any person authorized in that behalf by the
Authority may by notice in writing require any person to
furnish to the Authority or to the person autorized, within
such period as shall be specified in the notice, all such returns
or information pertaining to any activities relating to children
as are known to, or in the possession of, such person.

(2) It shall be the duty of any person who is required to
furnish any return or information by a notice under subsection
(1) to comply with such requirement within the period
specified in such notice, except where such person is precluded
from making such return or divulging such information under
the provisions of any law.

(3) The Authority. or any member thereof or any officer or
servant of the Authority, shall not disclose to any person or
use any returns or information furnished under subsection (1),
except when required to do so by a court of law or for the
purposes of discharging its functions.


National Child Protection Authority . 13
Act, No. 50 of 1998

25. The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and the
provisions of that Act, shall be construed accordingly.

26. Ali members, officers and servants of the Authority
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning and
for the purposes of the Penal Code.

27. (1) Where any immovable property of the State is
required for any purpose of the Authority, such purpose shall
be deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or lease
of such property may be made under section 6 of the Crown
Lands Ordinance and accordingly the provisions of that
Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of such
property to the Authority.

(2) Where any movable property of the State is required
for any purpose of the Authority, the Minister may, by Order
__ published in the Gazette, transfer to, and vest in the Authority
the possession and use of such movable property :

Provided however, that no Order affecting any movable
property of the State shall be made by the Minister under the
preceding provisions of this subsection, without the
concurrence of the Minister having control over such

property.

28. (1) Where any immovable property is required to
be acquired for any specific purpose of the Authority and the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette approves of the
proposed acquisition for that purpose that property shall be
deemed to be required for a public purpose and may
accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition Act and
transferred to the Authority.

(2) Any sum payable, for the acquisition of any immovable
property under the Land Acquisition Act for the Authority
shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority.

Authority to be a
scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Members, officers
and servants of the
Authority deemed

- to be public

servants.

State property
both movable and
immovable to be
made available to
the Authority.

Acquisition of
immovable
property under the
Land Acquisition
Act.


Protection for
action taken under
this Act or on the
direction of the
Authority.

No writ to be
against a member,
officer or servant
of the Authority.

Furnishing of
information to the
Minister.

Annual report.

14 National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

29. (1) No action or prosecution shall be instituted—

(a) against the Authority, for any act, which in good faith
is done or purported to be done by the Authority
under this Act ; or

(b) against any member, officer or servant of the
Authority or a officer of the Panel for any act which
in good faith is done or purported to be done by him
under this Act or on the direction of the Authority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of subsection (1), in any action or
prosecution instituted against him in respect of any act which
is done or purported to be done by him under this Act or on
the direction of the Authority shall be paid out of the Fund of
the Authority, if the Court holds that such act was done in
good faith.

30. No writ against the person or property shall be issued
against any member of the Authority or any officer or servant
of the Authority in any action brought against the Authority.

31. The Minister may, from time to time, direct the
Authority to furnish to the Minister in such form as the
Minister may require returns, accounts and other information
with respect to the work of the Authority and the Authority
shall carry out every such direction.

32. The Authority shall submit an annual report to the
Minister of all its activities during the year to which the report
relates, and the Minister shall cause such report to be placed
before Parliament. The Authority may, whenever it considers
it necessary to do so, submit periodic or special reports to
Minister in respect of any particular matter or matters
examined by it, and the action taken in respect thereof.

“

i)


National Child Protection Authority 15
Act, No. 50 of 1998

33. The Authority may, where it has reason to believe
that there is child abuse on any premises and that application
to court for a search warrant may prejudice investigation into
such child abuse, authorize in writing an officer of the
Authority to enter and search such premises. An Officer so
authorized is hereinafter referred to as an “authorized officer.

34. (1) Any authorized officer may—

(a) enter and inspect any premises of any institution by

(b

fc

—

)

(4)

{e

(2)

-

which child care services are provided ;

enter and inspect any premises, where he has reason
to believe that children are being kept for—

(i) the purpose of child abuse ;
(ii) any other unlawful purpose ;
(iii) illegal adoption ;

enter and inspect any hospital or maternity home,
where he has reason to believe that, illegal adoptions
are taking place in such hospital or maternity home ;

examine any books, registers or records maintained
by such institution, hospital or maternity home and
make extracts or copies therefrom ;

interrogate any person in any such premises for the
purpose of ascertaining the activities carried on in
such premises and whether there is any contravation
of any law relating to children.

Every person who obstructs or resists such officer in

the exercise of any power conferred on him by subsection (1)
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a
fine not less than one thousand rupees or to imprisonment of
either description for a term not less than six months or to
both such fine and imprisonment.

Powers of
Authority to
authorise any
officer to enter
and inspect any
premises.

Power of
inspection and
search.


Power to seize
articles.

Authorized
officers deemed to
be peace officers.

Offences.

16

National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

35. (1) Any authorized officer may, if he has reason to
believe that any offence under any law relating to children,
has been or is being committed, seize and detain—

(a) for such time as may be necessary, any article by

(b

—

means of or in relation to which the offence is alleged
to have been committed or which is used in relation
to the commission of the offence;

any book, register, record or other document or any
mechanical or electronic device which in his opinion
may constitute evidence in relation to the prosecution
of any person for any such offence.

(2) Where any authorized officer seizes any article under
subsection (1), such article shall be kept in the custody and

control of the Authority pending its disposal.

36. All authorized officers appointed under section 33

shall be deemed to be peace officers within the meaning of
and for the purposes of, the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979.

37. (1) Every person who—

(a) fails to furnish any return or information in

compliance with any requirement imposed on him
under this Act;

(b) knowingly makes any false statement in any return

or information furnished by him;

(c) being a member, officer or servant of the Authority

or a officer of the Panel discloses any information
obtained by him in or in connection with the exercise
of his powers or the discharge of his functions under
this Act which has the effect of disclosing any matter
relating to the identification of victims of child abuse,
to any person for any purpose other than a purpose
for which he is authorized to disclose such
information by this Act;


National Child Protection Authority 17
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(d) contravenes the provisions of this Act or any
regulation made thereunder,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Every person who commits an offence under this Act
for which no punishment is expressly provided by any other
Provision of this Act, shall on conviction after trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding five thousand
Tupees or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by a
body of persons, then—

(a) if that body of persons is a body corporate every
director or officer of that body corporate;

(6) if that body of Persons is a firm, every partner of
that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence:

Provided, however that a director or an officer of such body
corporate or partner of such firm shall not be deemed to be
guilty of such offence if he proves that such offence was
committed without his knowledge or that he used all due
diligence to prevent the commission of such offence,

(4) Every officer of the Panel or an officer or servant.

authorized in writing by the Authority shall be deemed to be
a public officer within the meaning of section 136 of the Code
of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for the purpose
of instituting Proceedings in respect of offences under laws
relating to children.

38. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
any matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect
of which regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

Regulations.


Interpretation.

18 National Child Protection Authority
Act, No. 50 of 1998

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
SO approved shail be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be published
in the Gazette.

39. In this Act unless the context otherwise requires—

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Authority
appointed under section 8;

“child” means a person under eighteen years of age;

“child abuse” means any act or omission relating to a child,
which would amount to a contravention of any of
the provisions of—

(a) sections 286a, 288, 288a, 2888, 308:, 360a,
360B, 360c, 363, 364a, 365, 365A, or 365B of
the Penal Code;

(6) the Employment of Women, Young Persons
and Children Act ;

(c) the Children and Young Persons Ordinance :
or

(d) the regulation relating to compulsory
education made under the Education
Ordinance,

and includes the involvement of, a child in armed
conflict which is likely to endanger the child’s life
or is likely to harm such child physically or
emotionally; ,


National Child Protection Authority 19
Act, No. 50 of 1998

“Deputy Chairman” means the Deputy Chairman of
the Authority appointed under section 8.

“local authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban
Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any
law to exercise, performance and discharge,
powers, duties and functions corresponding to
or similar to the powers, duties and functions
exercised, performed and discharged by any
such Council or Sabha;

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established under Chapter XVIIA of the
Constitution;

40. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


a

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, No. 32, TRANsworks House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
