hie
Of295
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRILANKA
APARTMENT OWNERSHIP (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 39 OF 2003
[Certified on 18th November, 2003]
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 21, 2003
FRNTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRETENG, SRILANA
8 FURGIUASED ATTHE COVEROIENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU. COLOMBO
Price : Rs. 37.50 Postage : Rs. 13.50


Apartment Ownership (Amendient)
Act, No. 39 of 2003 ei
[Certified on 18th November,:2003]
L. D—0 52/2001. s
[AN ACT 10 AMEND THE APARTMENT OWNERSHIP
Law, No. 11 oF 1973
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Apartment Ownership Short tile.
(Amendment) Act. No. 39 of 2003.
2. The Long title of the Apartment Ownership Law, No. Replacement of
11 of 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal the Long title to
. . pa’ LawNo. Hof
. enactment”) is hereby repealed and the following Long title 1973,
substituted therefor :—

“A LAW TO. PROVIDE FOR THE
REGISTRATION OF TITLES RELATING TO
CONDOMINIUM PARCELS IN BUILDINGS, THE
SUBDIVISION AND AMALGAMATION OF THE
BUILDING INTO CONDOMINIUM PARCELS WITH
COMMON ELEMENTS APPURTENANT THERETO,

TO ENABLE THE SEPARATE OWNERSHIP OF AND
DISPOSITION OF TITLES TO, SUCH PARCELS,
AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.”.
3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following’section substituted therefor :— seta ton the
. principal
Foun “di engetment.
‘Application “2. The Law shallapply to any building—
of the Law,
(@) erected on alienated land held as one
land parcel and capable of being
subdivided into parcels (hereinafter
referred to as “Condominium
Property”) ;
2-H 18540—5,650 (06/2003) _


2) Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(b) proposed to be erected on alienated land
held as one land parce! and capable of
being subdivided into parcels
(hereinafter referred to as
“Provisional Condominium Property”) ;
(c) partly erected on alienated land held
as one land parcel, on which there are
more than one completed condominium
parcels fit for human habitation
(hereinafter referred to as “Semi
Condominium Property.”).’.
Repeal of section 4, Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
of the principal ~—_ repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
enactment.
“Registration 3. (1) The owner of any Condominium
ofa __—_— Property any Provisional Condominium
saeriium Property or any Semi Condominium Property
Provisionat 8 the case may be, may make application in
Condominium the prescribed form to the Registrar with the
PlanorSemi prescribed fee for the registration of a
Condominium Condominium Plan, or a Provisional
Pla Condominium Plan or a Semi Condominium
Plan as the case may be.

(2) The owner of any land parcel on which
there is a completed building capable of being
subdivided under section 2 and which is
certified by the General Manager of the
Condominium Management Authority, to be
fit for occupation or use shall, make application.
within the period specified in paragraph (a) or
(b), as the case may be, in the prescribed form
with the prescribed fee to the Registrar, for the
registration of a Condominium Plan which shall
accompany such application, if at any time he
has sold or in agreement to sell—

(a) within eighteen months from the date
of such first sale or in agreement to sell


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 39 of 2003
or three months from the date of the
completion of such building whichever
is earlier ;

(®) within six months from the date of

completion of such building, if the sale
or agreement to sell of any parce! of the
building, of which the first of such sale
or agreement to sell took place. after the
date of completion of such building.

(3) (a) The owner shall make an
application to the General Manager of the
Condominium Management Authority, to
obtain an extension of the time period specified
under subsection (2).

(b) Where an application is made under
paragraph (a) by the owner to the General
Manager by the Condominium Management
Authority may, in consultation of the Registrar
grant an extension for a further period not
exceeding six months.

(4) Any person who contravenes the
provisions of subsection (2) or subsection (3)
as the case may be, shall be guilty of an offence
and be liable on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate to a fine not exceeding
rupees fifty thousand and to a further fine not
exceeding rupees one thousand for each day
the offence continues to be committed, after
such conviction.”.

5. The following new sections are hereby inserted insertion of new
immediately after section 3 and shall have effect as sections setions 2s 22
3a, 38 and 3c of the principal enactment: octal
‘Applcaionfor 3a. (1) (a) Every application for the — ensctment.
theregisation registration of a Condominium Plan, shall be
Crdoniion ™Ade to in the prescribed form in triplicate.

Pla,


4 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(6) The “Original” and the “Duplicate” of
such application shall be sent to the Registrar
and the “Triplicate” shall be sent to the General
Manager of the Condominium Management
Authority.

(2) Every application made under

subsection (1) shall be accompanied by ~

(a)_ the prescribed fee ;

() the building plan approved by the
planning authority in triplicate ;

(©). the Condominium Plan in triplicate
containing such details as are
specified in section 5;

(d) certificate, from a qualified architect
or a qualified civil or structural
engineer, to the effect that the building
was constructed in accordance with
the plans and specifications by
reference to which, permission was
granted indicating the date on which
such permission was granted and the
reference number thereof ;

(© the written consent of every person
who, if any, is entitled to the benefit
of—

(i) acharge of the land ;
(ii) alease of the whole or any part
thereof ;
Gii)_a charge of such lease ; or
(iv) alien over the land or any such
lease ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(the certificate of conformity issued by
the local authority within whose limits
the land is situated and empowered
to approve the building plan ;
(g) the Certificate of Title for the land
parcel :

Provided however, where the
Certificate of Title to the land parcel,
is not in the possession of the owner,
but in the possession of any other
person, a copy of a request by such
‘owner served on such other person for
the production of such Certificate to
the Registrar within fourteen days
from the date specified in such request
shall be attached to such application ;

(hi) (i) where there is a mortgage on the

Condominium Property proposed

to be regestered a declaration by

the applicant stating details as
regards the —

(A) finances already raised by
mortgaging the
Condominium Property
and the name of such
financial institution ;

(B) total amount borrowed
under the aforesaid
mortgage and the amount
secured against each such
Condominium Plan
proposed to be registered.

(ii) where there is no such mortgage on
the Condominium Property
proposed to be registered the owner
shall make a statement to that effect.


6 Apartinent Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(i, a certificate from the General
Manager of the Condominium
Management Authority certifying that
the common amenities provided for
the benefit and the welfare of the
- occupants of the condominium
parcels of the building are satisfactory
and arrangements made as regards the
control, administration, maintenance
or management of the common
elements of the Condominium
Property are satisfactory ; and
@ _adeclaration by the applicant, attested
by a Notary Public, which shall
contain—

(a description, by reference to
the cadastral map, of the land
parcel on which the building is
located and to which title is
claimed, its boundaries, extent
and situation specifying the
Administrative District,
Divisional Revenue Officer's
Division, village, ward, patty,
korale or other division or
district in which the land parcel
is situated. and in case the land
parcel is situated in a town, the
name, if any, of the street in
which it is situated, together
with the assessment number ;

(ii) the name and address of the
owner or owners of the
condominium parcels ;

(iii) the particulars of deeds,
instruments or other


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 39 of 2003
documents and of other
evidence of title relied upon
by the applicant in support of
the claim to title ;

(iv) a reference to the division,
volume and folio in which the
title is registered under the
Registration of Title Act, No.
21 of 1998 and, if the land
parcel is not so registered, a
declaration to the effect that
the land parcel is not so
registered ;

(v) the particulars of every
encumbrance, lispendens,
seizure, order or decree
affecting the land parcel, to the
knowledge of the applicant ;

(vi) a description of the building,
stating the number of storeys
and basement and the
number of condominium
parcels ;

(vii) the number or other symbol
identifying each
condominium parcel and a

- statement of its location, floor

area, number of rooms, any

‘ immediate common area to

which it has access, and any

other information for the

purpose of identification,

including corresponding

information relating to an
accessory parcel, if any ;


8 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(viii) a description of the common
elements of the Condominium
Property ;

(ix) a description of the accessory
parcels of the Condominium
Property, specifying the
condominium parcels they are.
made appurtenant to,
irrespective of whether the
accessory parcels are
contiguous to the specified
condominium parcels or
otherwise ;

(x) the undivided share value of
each condominium parcel in
the common elements of the
Condominium Property ;

(xi) the percentage of the
undivided share in common
elements appurtenant to each
condominium parcel ;

(xii) a statement of the purpose for
which the building and each
of the condominium parcel is
intended and restricted as to
its use ;

(xiii) a statement of account on the
advances already drawn from
the prospective purchasers
giving their names for
allocation of condominium
parcels in the Condominium
Plan ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 9
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(xiv) any further details in
connection with the
‘condominium property which
the applicant may deem
desirable to set forth
consistent with this Law ;
(xv) any other information which
may be required to be provided
by or under any written law ;
(xvi) the signature of the owner or
owners of the condominium
property ;
(4) reference number in the case of the
registration of the Semi Condominium
Plan or the Provisional Condominium
Plan, as the case may be.
Application 3p, (1) (a) Every application for the
oe or esistration of a Provisional Condominium Plan
Provisional, Shall be made to in the prescribed form in
Condominium tiplicate.
Plan, .

(b) The “Original” and the “Duplicate” of
such application shall be sent to the Registrar
and the “Triplicate” shall be sent to the General
Manager of the Condominium Management
Authority,

(2) Every application made under
subsection (1) shall be accompanied by—

(a) the prescribed fee ;

(6) the building plan approved by the
planning authority, in triplicate ;

(©) the Provisional Condominium Plan
containing such particulars specified
in section Sa ;


10 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(@ the written consent of every person
who, if any is entitled to the benefit
of —
(a charge of the land ;
’

(ii) lease of the whole or any part
thereof ;

(iii) a charge of such lease ; or

(iv) alien over the land or any such
lease.

(@) the Certificate of Title for the land
parcel :

Provided however, where the
Certificate of Title to the land parcel, is
not in the possession of the owner, but
in the possession of any other person a
copy of a request by such owner served
‘on such other person for the production
of such Certificate to the Registrar of
Title within fourteen days from the date
specified in such request shall be
attached to such application ;

(D acertificate from the General Manager
of the Condominium Management
Authority certifying that—

(i) common amenities required to
be provided to the proposed
building, has been provided for,
in the approved building plan ;

(ii) the common elements of the
proposed building has been
properly designed in the


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) u
Act, No. 39 of 2003

proposed building plan, to
ensure proper control,
: administration, maintenance
or management of such
common elements by the

‘Management Corporation ;

(g) a declaration by the applicant, on
the—

(availability of funds for the
construction of the building
supported by acertificate from
a recognised financial
institution stating the
availability of financial
support for the contraction of
such building ;

Gi) details of the finances already
raised or to be raised by
mortgaging the Provisional
Condominium Property, and
the amount secured or to be
secured against each
provisional condominium
parcel or parcels, and the name
of such financial institution,
supported by a certificate from
the recognized financial
institution ;

(h) a financial report confirming the cost
of the construction verified by a
qualified quantity surveyor, or a
qualified civil or structural engineer ;

(implementation plan of the total
construction indicating the proposed


12 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003.
= date of ‘commencentent: and the
proposed date of completion of each
of the following activities supported by
. a certificate of the qualified architect
or a qualified civil or structural
engineer as the case may be—
i) foundation,columns ;
(ii) construction of walls ;
iii) construction of storey ; F
(iv). construction of roof ;
(v) final finishing upto the level
for human habitation.

@ a declaration by the applicant
attested by a Notary Public
containing the requirement specified

~ in paragraph (j) of subsection (2) of
"section 34.
Application for 3c. (1) (a) Every application for the
senpestest registration of a Semi Condominium Plan shall
Contrada be made to in the prescribed form in triplicate.
Phan,
(6) The “Original” and the “Duplicate” of such
application shall be sent to the Registrar, and the
* “Triplicate” shall be sent to the General Manager
. of the Condominium Management Authority. © *
ae ieal (2) Every application made under subsection .
(1) shall be accompanied by—
(@) the prescribed fee;
a (b) the building plan approved by the
planning authority, in triplicate ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 13
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(© the Semi Condominium Plan
containing such particulars specified
in section 58;

(d) the written consent of every person
who, if any is entitled to the benefit
of—

(i) a charge of the land ;

(ii) _alease of the whole or any part

thereof ;
Gili) a charge of such lease ;

(iv) alien over the land or any such

lease,

(e) the Certificate of Title for the land
parcel :

Provided however, where the
Certificate of Title to the land parcel, is
not in the possession of the owner, but
in the possession of any other person a
copy of a request by such owner served
on such other person for the production
of such Certificate for the Registrar of
Title within fourteen days of the date
specified in such request shall be
attached to such application ;

(M a certificate from the General
Manager of the Condominium
Management Authority certifying that
the common amenities provide for the
benefit and welfare of the occupants

: of the condominium parcels of the
building are satisfactory and
arrangements made as regards the

° control, administration, maintenance


14 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
or management of the common
elements of the Condominium
Property are satisfactory ;

(g) a cettificate of conformity from the
local authority within whose limits the
land is situated and empowered to
approve the building plan ;

(i) acertificate from a qualified architect or
a qualified civil or structural engineer,
as the case may be, to the effect that the
completed condominium parcels and
provisional condominium parcels, shown
in the Semi Condominium Plan has been
drawn in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications by reference to
which, permission was given stating
therein the date on which such
permission was given and the reference
number thereto ;

_ @ the reference number in the case of the
registration of a Semi Condominium
Plan or a Provisional Condominium
plan, as the case may be ;

@) @_ where there is a mortgage on the
Condominium Property
proposed to be registered a
declaration by the applicant
stating details as regards the—

. (A) finances already raised
by mortgaging the
Condominium Property
and name of such
financial institution ;
(B) total amount borrowed
under the aforesaid
mortgage and the


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 1s
Act, No. 39 of 2003
amount secured against
each such Condominium
Plan proposed to be
registered ;
(ii) where there is no such mortgage
on the Condominium Property
: proposed to be registered the
owner shall make a statement to
that effect.
(&) declaration by the applicant attested
by a Notary Public containing the
requirements specified in paragraph
. () of subsection (2) of section 3a.”.
6. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :— section Sof he
principal
“Condominium 5. (1) The Condominium Plan shall “™"™™™
Pla. comprise of a survey plan or plans which shall
be prepared and drawn by a licensed surveyor
or by or under the authority of the Surveyor-
General and shall—
(@) delineate the external surface
boundaries and boundary marks of the
Condominium Property and the
position of each subdivided building
thereon fixed in relation to the surface
boundaries ;
(®) specify the division, volume and folio
in which the land parcel is registered
F and the surveyed area thereof ;
(©) include a vertical section of each
subdivided building showing—
(the floors and ceilings of
each storey ; and
(ii) the height of each storey, :
2.


16 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(@)_ include a description, as well as the
vertical section and dimensions, of
each building erected within the
Condominium Property as a completed
subdivided building, in accordance
with building plans and subdivision
plans approved by the authority for the
time being responsible for the approval
of such plans ;

(€) delineate, subject to the provisions of
subsections (2) and (3), each
condominium parcel and define the
boundaries thereof by reference to
floors and walls showing the horizontal
dimensions, without it being necessary"
to show any bearing ;

(identify the condominium parcels into
which each building is divided and
distinguish such parcels by assessment
numbers, numbers or other symbols ;

(g) distinguish each storey by an index
letter in relation to the sand parcel
number of the Condominium Proprerty
and specify the condominium parcels
in each storey in relation to the number
of such storey ;

(h) specify the approximate floor area of
each condominium parcel ;.

(delineate the external boundaries and
show the horizontal dimenions
without it being necessary to show any
bearing of each building erected

«within the Condominium Property as


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 39 of 2003
a completed subdivided building in
aacordance with building plans any
subdivided plans approved by the
authority for time being responsible
for the approval of such plans ;

(@ define the common elements of the
Condominium Property ;

(&)_ bear an endorsement by the person
preparing it to the effect that the
building shown in the condominium
plan is within the external horizontal
boundaries of the Condominium
Property ;

(to it a certificate from a registered
architect or a registered professional
civil or structural engineer to the effect
that the condominium parcels shown
therein are the same as those existing
on the Condominium Property ;

(m) enter the share value of each
condominium parcel in the plan in
compliance with the provisions of
section 20a ; and

(n) bear an endorsement with a centificate
ofa licensed surveyor that all buildings
and all Condominium parcels shown

— in the Condominium Plan in relation
to the external surface boundaries of
the Condominium Property are within
the Condominium Property and are in
compliance with the building plan, and
the subdivision plans issued by the
authority for the time being responsible
for the approval of such plans.


18 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(0) show the share values in whole
numbers of each condominium parcel
and number equal to the aggregate
share value entitlement of all the
condominium parcels ;

(p) have endorsed upon it the address at
which documents may be served on
the management corporation in
accordance with section 20N ; and

(@)_ contain such other particulars as may
be prescribed.

(2) Where an accessory parcel consists of a
building and is bounded by external walls,  “
floors and ceilings, the dimensions and
boundaries of such accessory parcel shall be
shown in the Condominium Plan in accordance
with the requirements of subsection (1).

(3) Where an accessory parcel does not
consist of a building—

(a) the external boundaries of the
accessory parcel shall be ascertained
from the building plans and subdivision
plans approved by the authority
for the time being responsible for the
approval of such plans and the accessory
parcel shall be unlimited in its vertical
dimension except to the extent of any
projection above, or encroachment
below ground level by another part of
the condominium property ; and

(6) the Condominium Plan shall show a
diagram of the accessory parcel with
similar dimensions as those shown on
the approved plans referred to in
paragraph (a).


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 19
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(4) Unless otherwise stipulated in the

‘Condominium Plan, the common boundary on

any condominium parcel with another

condominium parcel or with the common

elements shall be the centre of the floor, wall
or ceiling as the case may be.”.

7. The following new sections are hereby inserted Insertion of new
immediately after section 5 of the principal enactment and sections Sa and So
shall have the effect as sections Sa and Se of that enactment:— is he Principal
‘Provisional 5a. The Provisional Condominium Plan
Condominium shall be prepared and drawn by a licensed

5 surveyor or by or under the authority of the

Surveyor General and shall :—

(@) delineate the external surface
boundaries and boundary marks of the
proposed Condominium Property and
position of each subdivided building
proposed to be rected thereon in relation
to the surface boundaries ;

(h) specify the division, volume and folio

* in which the land parcel is registered
and the surveyed area thereof ;

(©) include a vertical section of each
subdivided building proposed to be
erected showing—

(i) the floors and ceiling of each
storey ; and
(ii) the height of each storey ;

@ include a description, as well as the
vertical section and dimensions, of each
building proposed to be erected within


20 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
the land parcel in accordance with
building plan approved by the authority
for the time being responsible for the
approval of such plans ;

(@) delineate, subject to the provisions of
subsections (2) and (3) of section 5,
each proposed condominium parcel and
define the boundaries thereof by
reference to floors and walls showing
the horizontal dimensions, without it
being necessary to show any bearing ;

() identify the proposed condominium
parcels into which each proposed
building is to be divided and distinguish
such parcels by assessment numbers,
numbers of other symbols ;

(g) distinguish each proposed storey by an
index letter in relation to the land parcel
number of the cadastral map and
specify the proposed condominium
parcels in each storey in relation to
number of such storey ;

(h) specify the approximate floor area of
each proposed parcel ;

(® delineate the external boundaries and
show the horizontal dimensions without
it being necessary to show any bearing
of each building proposed to be erected
within the land parcel in accordance
with the building plan approved by the
authority for the time being responsible
for the approval of such plan ;

@ define the provisional common
elements of the provisional
condominium property ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 21
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(& show the provisional share values in
whole numbers of each proposed
condominium parcel and a number
equal to the aggregate provisional share.
value entitlement of all the proposed
condominium parcels ;

() bear an endorsement by the person
preparing such plan to the effect that,
the building proposed to be erected
shown in the Provisional Condominium,
Plan is in accordance with the building
plan approved by the authority for the
time being responsible for the approval,
of such plan.

Semi 5p. The Semi Condominium Plan shall be

Gondominiam prepared and drawn by a licensed surveyor or
by or under the authority of the Surveyor-
General and shall—

(@) delineate the-external surface boundaries
and boundary marks, of the Semi
Condominium Property and the position,
of each partly completed subdivided
building thereon fixed in relation to the
surface boundaries and the position of
the balance portion of the building yet
to be completed in accordance with the
building plan approved by the authority
for the time being thereon in relation to
the surface boundaries ;

(b) specify the division, volume and folio
in which the land parcel is registered
and the surveyed area thereof ;


2 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

(©) include a vertical section of each partly
completed subdivided building
showing—

(i) the floors and ceiling of each
storey ; and
i) the height of each storey,

(@ include a description, separately the
vertical section and dimensions of
partly completed building erected, and
vertical section and dimensions of
balance portion of the building yet to
be completed within the land parcel in
accordance with building plan approved
by the authority for the time being
responsible for the approval of such
plans ;

(e) delineate, subject to the provisions of
subsections (2) and (3) of section 5,
each condominium parcels of the partly
completed building, and define the
boundaries thereof by reference to
floors and walls showing the horizontal
dimensions, without it being necessary
to show any bearing ;

() indentify the condominium parcels of
the partly completed building, into

__- which each building is to be divided and
distinguish such parcels by assessment
numbers, numbers or other symbols ;

(g) distinguish each storey by an index letter
in relation to the land parce! number of
the cadastral map and specify the

: condominium parcels of the partly
completed building in each storey in
relation to the number of such storey ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 23
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003
(h) specify the approximate floor area of
7 each parcel ;
(i delineate the extemal boundaries and
show the horizontal dimensions without
it being necessary to show any bearing
of each partly completed building
erected within the land parcel in
accordance with the building plan
approved by the authority for the time
being responsible for the approval of
such plan ;
(@) define the common elements of the
Semi Condominium Property ;
(&) show the share values in whole numbers
of each condominium parcel of the
partly completed building and each
provisional condominium parcel of the
balance portion of the building yet to be
completed and a number equal to the
aggregate share value entitlement of all
such condominium parcels and all such
. provisional condominium parcels ;
() bear an endorsement by the person
preparing such plan to the effect that the
partly completed building erected show in
the Semi Condominium Plan is in
accordane with the building plan approved
by the authority for the time being
responsible for the approval of such plan.
8. Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
Tepealed and the following section substituted therefor :— section 6 ofthe
principal
‘Registration of 6. (1) Upon receipt of any application for ‘semen
Soadominium the registration of a Condominium Plan, or a
re-division of ° “Provisional Condominium Plan”, or a “Semi
Sele Condiminium Plan” or any application under
‘againgt refusals, Section 8 for the registration of a “Plan of


4 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
amendment or any application under section
88 for the registration of a Plan of amendment
or any application under section 12 for the
registration of a Plan of re-division or a Plan
of amalgamation or any application under
section 8a for registration of a Plan of addition
the Registrar shall refer such application
together with the Condominium Plan, or the
Provisional Condominium Plan, or the Semi
Condominium Plan, or the Plan of amendment,
or the Plan of re-division or the Plan of
amalgamation or the Plan of additions, as the
case may be, and the cadastral map to the
Superintendent of Survey for certification.
(2) Where the Superintendent of Survey is
* satisfied, that the Condominium Plan or
Provisional Condominium Plan, or Semi
Condominium Plan, or the Plan of amemdment,
or the Plan of re-division or the Plan of
amalgamation or the Plan of additions, as the
case may be, conforms to the provision of the
Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998, he
shall certify such plan on behalf of the
Surveyor-General and—
(@) file the orginal of the Condominium
Plan or the Provisional Condominium
Plan, or the Semi Condominium Plan
or the Plan of amendment or the Plan
of re-division, or the Plan of
amalgmation or the Plan of additions,
as the case may be after making suitable
references and after making necessary
amendments or alterations, or
subdivisions or amalgamation or
incorporations, on the cadastral map
used for registration of title ; and


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 25
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(6) forward the duplicate of such plan and

the application to appropriate Registrar

along with the cadastral map after

making necessary references or

+ amendments, or subdivisions or

amalgamation as the case may be.

(3) Upon receipt of a cadastral map duly
certified from the Superintendent of Surveys,
the Registrar ghall, if he is satisfied that such
application conforms to the provisions of the
of the Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998,
and—

(a) where the application is for the

registration of a Condominium Plan—

(i file the duplicate of the
Condominium Plan in the
condominium parcel file ;

(ii) open a new title file register in
respect of each condominium
parcel shown in the
Condominium Plan and make
suitable cross references to such
register and, in the register in
which the land parcel has been
registered and in the register on
which Provisional Condominium
Plan or Semi Condominium Plan
has been registered if there are

a previously registered Provisional
Condominium Plan or Semi
Condominium Plan ;

(iii) record in the property section,
4 in the register pertaining to the
land parcel, that the land
comprised therein consists only
‘of common property ;


26 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(iv) record in the encumbrances
section in the register in respect
of each condominium parcels
shown in the condominium plan,
on the existence of mortgages
and the amount secured against
each such condominium parcel,
and ‘particulars of every
encumbrances, such as leases,
agreements for sale, lispendance

: seizure order or decree &c.,
affecting the condominium
parcel, if any ;

(¥) inform the applicant that such,
condominium plan has been
registered (hereinafter referred
to as “registered Condominium
Plan”) and notify him, of the
reference, with a notification

3 to the — Condominium
’ Management Authority ;

: (vi) issue a certificate of
“condominium title”, in respect
of the individual condominium
parcel on receipt of the
prescribed fee.

(6) where the application is for the
registration of a Provisions!
Condominium Plan—

(i) file the duplicate of the
Provisional Condominium Plan
in the provisional condominium
parcels file ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) ey
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(ii) open a new provisional title :
file register in the register in
respect of each provisional
condominium parcel shown in
the Provisional Condominium
Plan and make suitable cross
references to such register in the
register in which the land parcel
has been registered ;

(iii) record in the property section in
the register pertaining to the land
parcel that the land comprised
therein consists only of

. provisional common property ;

(iv) record in the encumbrances
section in the register in
respect of each provisional
condominium parcels on the
existence of mortgages and the
amount secured against each
such condominium parcels,

_ and particulars of every
encumbrances such as leases,
agreements for _ sale,
lispendance seizure order, or
decree &c., effecting the
condominium parcel, if any ;

(¥) inform the applicant that such
Provisional Condominium Plan
has been registered (hereinafter
“© geferred to as “registered
Provisional Condominium Plan”)
and notify him of the reference
numbers of the relevant registers
with a notification to the
Condominium Management
o Authority ;


28 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003,

(vi)_issuea certificate of Provisional
Condominium title, in respect
of individual provisional
‘condominium parcels on receipt,
of the prescribed fees,

(© where the application is for the
registration of the Semi Condominium
Plan—

() file the duplicate of the Semi
Condominium Pian in the semi
condominium parcel file ;

(ii) open a new title file register in
the register in respect of each
condominium parcel shown in
the Semi Condominium Plan and
make suitable cross references to
such register and, in the register
in which the land parcel has been
registered and in the register on
which Provisional
Condominium Plan has been
registered, if there are previously
registered Provisional
‘Condominium Plan ;

(iii) record in the property section,
in the register pertaining to the
land parcel, that the land
comprised therein consists only
of common property ;

, (iv) record in the encumbrances
/ section in the register in respect
of each condominium parcels

shown in the semi

: condominium plan, on the


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 29
Act, No. 39 of 2003

existence of mortgages and the
amount secured against each such
condominium parcel, and
particulars of every encumbrances,
such as leases, agreements for sale,
lispendens seizure order or decree
&c., affecting the condominium
parcel, if any ;

(¥) inform the applicant that such,
semi condominium plan has
been registered (hereinafter
referred to as “registered Semi
Condominium Plan”) and notify
him, of the reference numbers of
the relevant registers, with a
notification to the Condominium
Management Authority ;

(vi) issue a certificate of Semi
Condominium Title, in respect
of the individual condominium
parcels, on receipt of the
prescribed fees.

(d) where the application is for, the
registration of any plan of amendment
of the registered Condominium Plan or
of the registered Semi Condominium
Plan or any Plan of re-division or any
Plan of amalgamation of the registered
Condominium Plan or of the registered
Semi Condominium Plan—

(i) file the duplicate of the Plan of
amendment, or Plan of re-
division or Plan of
amalgamation in the relevant
condominium parcel file ;


30 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(ii) make necessary references in
the condominium title register
in respect of each condominium
parcels shown in the registered
Condominium Plan or in the
registered Semi Condominium
: Plan, and make necessary cross
references to original registered
Condominium Plan or original
+ registered Semi Condominium
Plan ;

iii) inform the applicant that such
amendment or redivision or
amalgamation of the registered

‘ Condominium Plan or of the
registered Semi Condominium
Plan, has been registered, and
notify him of the reference
numbers of the relevant register
with a notification to the
Condominium Management
Authority ;

(iv) issue a fresh “certificate of
Condominium Title” in respect
of individual condominium
parcels, on receipt of the
prescribed fee.

(&) where the application is for the
registration of any plan of amendment
of the registered Provisional
Condominium Plan —

: (i) file the duplicate of the Plan of
amendment of the registered
Provisional Condominium Plan
in the relevant provisional
condominium parcel file ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 31
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(ii) make necessary reference in the

2 provisional condominium title

register in respect of each

provisional condominium parcels

shown in the registered

Provisional Condominium Plan

and make necessary cross

references to original registered

Provisional Condominium Plan ;

ii) record in the encumbrances
section in the register in respect
of each amended provisional
condominium parcels on the
existence of mortgages and the
amount secured against each
such condominium parcels, and
particulars of —_ every
encumbrances, such as leases,
agreements for sale, lispendens
seizure order or decree &c.
affecting the condominium
parcel, if any ;

(iv) inform the applicant that such
amendment of the registered

. provisional condominiun plan
has been registered and notify
him of the reference numbers of
the relevant register with a
notification to the Condominium
Management Authority ;

(v) issue a fresh “certificate of
Condominium Title” in respect
of individual condominium

\ parcels, on receipt of the
prescribed fee.


32 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
() where the application is for the
registration of any plan of additions of
the registered Semi Condominium

Plan—

(i) file the duplicate of the plan of
additions, of the registered Semi
Condominium Plan in the
relevant condominium parcel
file ;

(ii) make necessary references in
the condominium title register
in respect of each condominium
parcels added subsequently
shown in the plan of additions
of the registered Semi
Condominium Plan, and make
necessary cross references in the
register in which the land parcel
has been registered and in the
register on which Semi
Condominium Plan or
Provisional Condominium Plan
has been registered ;

(iii) record in the encumbrances
section in the register in respect
of each condominium parcels
added subsequently shown in
the plan of additions of the
registered Semi Condominium
Plan, on the existence of
mortgages and the amount
secured against each such
condominium parcel and
particulars of every
encumbrances, such as leases,
agreements for sale, lispendens,


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 33
Act, No. 39 of 2003
seizure order or decree &c.
affecting such condominium
parcel, if any ;
(iv) inform the applicant with copy
to” the — Condominium
Management Authority that
i such condominium parcels has”
been registered in the registered
semi condominium plan ;

(v) issue of “certificate of
Condominium Title”, in respect
of such condominium parcels
‘on receipt of the prescribed fee.

(4) Sections 34, 35 and 37 of the Registration
of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998, shall, mutatis
‘mutandis, apply to the inspection of the title
register and the cadastral map, issue of certified
copies of documents and extracts of cadastral
maps and obtaining of certificate of ownership
or interest of the condominium parcel or parcels.

(5) Where the Registrar refuses to register the
Condominium Plan or the Provisional
Condominium Plan or the Semi Condominium
Plan or the Plan of amendment, or the Plan of
redivision or the Plan of amalgamation or the Plan
of additions as the case may be, he shall make an
order of refusal and record his reasons for such
order in the prescribed register and shall endorse
the words “Registration of condominium title
refused” or “Registration of provisional
condominium title refused” or “Registration of
semi condominium title refused”, as the case may
be, on the instruments and on the application
made by the person who presented the application
for such registration and shall, without payment
or unnecessary delay issueto the applicantacopy
of the reasons so recorded,


34 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(6) An appeal shall lie from every order
made by the Registrar refusing to register the
Condominium Plan or the Provisional
Condominium Plan, or the Semi Condominium
Plan, or the Plan of amendment, or the Plan of
re-division or the Plan of amalgamation or the
Plan of additions and the provisions in section
38 of the Registration of Documents Ordinance
shall, mutatis mutandis apply in relation to such
appeal.’.
Replacement of 9. Section 7 of the principal enactment is hereby
aan ofthe repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-—
‘enactment, “Retention 7. Section 53 of the Registration of Title
se ction of ACH No. 21 of 1998, shall mutatis mutandis,
jntumens 2PPly to the retention and destruction of all
instruments accepted by the Registrar and filed
“in the condominium parcels file, or in the
provisional condominium parcels file.”.
Replacement of 10. Section 7a of the principal enactment is hereby
a ofthe repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—
enactment.
“Registration 7. (1) The Condominium Plan or the
o domiaium Pf0¥isional Condominium Plan or the Semi
Propery, Condominium Plan as the case may be, shall
Provisional be deemed to be registered under the provisions
Condominium of this law, when the application of the owner,
Property.and of the Condominium Property or the
eer minium Provisional Condominium Property or the Semi
Propery. Condominium Property tendered for
registration has been signed and sealed by the
Registrar and made cross reference in all
relevant title registers are duly made.
(2) Upon the registration of the Condominium
Plan or the Provisional Condominium Plan or the
Semi Condominium Plan, as the case may be the
owner of any condominium parcel of the


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 35
Act, No. 39 of 2003
Condominium Property, the owner of any
provisional condominium parcel of any
Provisional Condominium Property, or the owner
of any condominium parcel of the Semi
Condominium Property, shall be deemed to be
the owner of his parcel and his share in the
common elements or provisional common
elements, subject to the encumbrances, if any,
registered or notified in the relevant register”.
11. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-— brand the
rine
“amendment 8. (1) The owner of any condominium °™“™***
ofthe parcel of a registered condominium property,
pendonssit™ or of a registered semi condominium property
Condominium May make an application in the prescribed form
Plan to the Registrar, for the registration of the plan
of amendment of the registered Condominium
Plan or of registered Semi Condominium Plan.
(2) An application for the registration of
such plan shall be accompanied by—
(@ a survey plan, (hereinafter referred to as
“the Plan of amendment” of the
registered Condominium Plan or of the
registered Semi Condominium Plan)
prepared and drawn by a licensed
surveyor to be submitted in triplicate
showing the relevant alterations caused
to the existing condominium parcel of
the registered Condominium Plan or of
the registered Semi Condominium Plan ;
() a certificate from a qualified Architect
or a qualified civil or structural Engineer
: to the effect that the alterations shown
in the survey plan conform to the
position existing on the land ;


36 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(©) certificate from the General Manager
certifying that the alterations to the
condominium parce! do not cause any
adverse effect on the requirements of the
control, administration, maintenance,
and management of the common
elements of the Condominium Property
or of the Semi Condominium Property ;

(@ approval of the relevant authority for

* such alterations to be affected to the
approved building plan ;

(e) consent of the relevant mortgagee, if
any, for such alterations to be affected
to such condominium parcel.”.

Insertion of new --12..The following new sections are hereby inserted
oe 8aand88 immediately after section 8 and shall have effect as sections
Bnihepanciesl 84 and 8n of the principal enactment :—
‘Registration 8a, (1) The owner of any Semi
ott inum Condominium Property may, apply to the
parcels added Registrar for the registration of the
subsequently condominium parcels subsequently added to
tothe party the partly completed building, shown in the
comp , ni
fangs” tegistered Semi Condominium Plan,
‘shown in the
registered (2) An application for registration under
Semi subsection (1) shall be in the prescribed form,
Condominium and be accompanied by—

(a) the prescribed fee ;

(6) survey plan in triplicate, (hereinafter
referred to as the “Plan of additions”
of the registered Semi Condominium
Plan) to be submitted, prepared and
drawn by a licensed surveyor, or by , oF


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 39 of 2003
under the authority of the Surveyor-
General and shall—

(show the relevant condominium
parcels added subsequently to
the partly completed building
shown in the registered Semi
Condominium Plan ;

(ii) show the undivided share value
and the percentage of the
individual share of each
condominium parcel in
common elements appurtenant
to such condominium parcels ;

(iii) give reference number of the
cadastral map and the previous
registration number of
certificate of condominium title
of each condominium parcels
shown in the registered Semi
Condominium Plan,

(c) a certificate from a qualified Architect
or a qualified civil or structural engineer
to the effect that the condominium
parcels shown in the plan of additions
conforms to the position existing on the
land ;

(@) certificate from the General Manager
of the Condominium Management
Authority certifying that the 4
‘condominium parcels shown in the Plan
of additions is fit for human habitation
and the services of common amenities
provided to such parcels are
satisfactory ;


38 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)

‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

(©) the certificate of semi condominium
title subject to the provisions specified
in paragraph (g) of subsection (2) of
section 3a

(f a certificate of conformity from the
authority who has been empowered to
approve the building plan to the effect
that the condominium parcels shown in
the plan of additions of registered semi
condominium plan is in conformity
with the regulations ;

(g) declaration of the applicant as per the
provisions specified in paragraph (h) of
subsection (2) of section 3a ;

(h) a declaration of the applicant and

+ attested by a Notary Public, which shall
contain the—
(i) full name and address of the
5 registered owner the reference
number relating to certificates
of condominium title on
condominium parcels ;

(ii) changes affected to the
undivided share value and
percentage of such value of each
condominium parcel in the
common elements appurtenant
to such condominium parcels
shown in the plan of additions
of the registered Condominium
Plan ;

(iii) reference number on previous
registration of Semi
Condominium Plan ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 39
Act, No. 39 af 2003

(iv) a statement of account on the
et ‘ advances already drawn from
the prospective purchasers
giving their names for
allocation of such condominium
parcels shown in the Plan of
additions of the registered Semi

Condominium Plan ;
(v). the signature of the owner or
owners of the semi

. condominium property.
‘Amendment 8. The owner of any registered provisional
aay condominium property, may apply in writing
Provisional ‘0 the Registrar for the registration of the “plan
Condominium of amendment” of the registered Provisional
panos, Condominium Plan of Provisional
Condominium Condominium Property. Application of the
Property. _ owner for such registration in a prescribed form,
"shall be accompanied with—

(a) a survey plan, (hereinafter referred to
as “the Plan of amendment” of the
registered Provisional Condominium
Plan) prepared and drawn by a licensed

. . surveyor to be submitted in triplicate
showing the relevant alterations caused
to the provisional condominium parcel
of the registered Provisional
Condominium Plan ;

(b) a declaration of the applicant, along
with a financial report confirming the
cost of the construction of the building
due to amendments effected to the


40 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)

Act, No. 39 of 2003

registered Provisional Condominium

Plan, verified by a qualified quantity

surveyor-or by a qualified civil or

structural engineer, on—

(availability of funds for the

construction of the building
supported by a certificate from
a recognized finance institution
indicating their willingness to
finance for the project ;

(ii) details of the finances already
raised or to be raised by
mortgaging the Provisional
Condominium Property, and the
amount secured or to be secured
against each provisional
condominium parcel or parcels,

; and name of such financial
institution, supported by a
certificate from the recongnized
financial institution ;

(©) implementation plan of the total
construction indicating the date of
commencement and the date of
completion of each of following
activities supported by a certificate of
the qualified architect or qualified civil
or structural engineer—

(foundation and columns ;

(ii) construction of walls ;

(ii) construction of storey ;
(iv) construction of roof ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 4

Act, No. 39 of 2003

(v) Final finishing upto the level for
human habitation ;

(vi) cemtficate from the General-Manager
certifying that the alterations to the
provisional condominium parcel does
not cause any adverse effect on the
requirements of control,
administration, maintenance, and
management of the common
elements by the management
corporation ;

(Vii) approval of the relevant authority
for such alterations to be affected
to the approved building plan.”.

13. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :— fen of the
‘enactment
“Effect of 9. (1) Upon registration of the Condominium
veeeworet, Plan or Semi Condominium Plan, each building
Plan orSemi OF partly completed building depicted in the
Condominium Condominium Property or Semi Condominium
Plan: Property shall be deemed to be divided into
units and identified therein and thereupon the
common elements shall be held by the owners
of all the condominium parcels as tenants in
common proportional to their respective share
parcels and for the same term and tenure as
their respective condominium parcels are held
by them.
(2) The Registrar on registration of the
Condominium Plan or Semi Condominium
Plan shall certify therein the share which the
owner of a condominium parcel has in the
common elements.


2 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(8) The share value which each owner of a
condominium parcel has in the common
elements shall be given according to the user of
such condominium parce! whether commercial
or residential or ortherwise, as the case may be.

(4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary

in any other law, but subject to the provisions
of this Law, after the registration of a
Condominium Plan, or Semi Condominium
Plan, any condominium parcel depicted therein
together with the common elements
appurtenant thereto may be held and dealt with
in the same manner and form as any land.

(5) Upon registration of a Condominium
Plan, or Semi Condominium Plan, each
condominium parcel depicted therein together
with the common elements appurtenant thereto
shall be deemed to be absolutely owned by the
person or persons described in the relevant plan
as the owner or owners of the Condominium
Property or the Semi Condominium Property,
as may be applicable without prejudice to the
right of the mortgagee to exercise the right of
execution of parate or to obtain monetary
compensation in terms of the law relevant to
such mortgage, or to the right of any other
person to obtain monetary compensation for
any loss suffered as a result of any mortgage,
agreement for sale or interest he had in the
Condominium Property or in the Semi
Condominium Property before such
registration, being adversely affected.’.


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 43
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003
14. The following new section is hereby inserted Insertion of new
immediately after section 9 and shall have effect as section section 9 in the
9a of the principal enactment:— principal
enactment,
‘Erect of 9a. Upon registration of a Provisional
ian °f Condominium Plan, _each provisional
Condeiatym condominium parcel depicted therein together
Pals with the provisional common elements
appurtenant thereto, shall be deemed to be
absolutely owned by the person described in
the relevant plan as the owner of the Provisional
Condominium Property, and shall exercise
such ownership, subject to the following
limitations :—
(a) _ the existence of any mortgages executed
prior to the registration of provisional
condominium plan, or after the
registration of provisional condominium
plan securing the land parcel, where the
proposed building is to be erected, shall
extend to each such provisional
condominium parcel, and shall no right
to execute any instrument in respect of
any of the provisional condominium
parcel or land parcel, in favour of any :
other party, without the consent of the
mortgagee or mortgagees ;
(6) the existence of any agreements of sale
for individual provisional condominium
parcel registered at the registrar, shall
be recognized as an encumbrance of the
absolute ownership, and exercisable,
without prejudice to the rights of such
prospective purchaser, who is a party
t to the said agreement of sale ;
i (©) the owner shall not sell, lease, rent or
dispose in any other manner, other than
by way of mortgage, the land parcel
where the proposed building is to be


44 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
erected, shown in the registered
Provisional Condominium Plan, until the
said building is partly completed and
registered at the registrar as “Semi
Condominium Property”. Where a sale,
lease, rent or any other disposition, other
than the mortgage, is executed by or on
behalf of the owner in contravention of
this provisions, shall be null and void
and shall have no force of effect in law :
7 Provided that, nothing in these

provisions shall be deemed to preclude
any authority from selling the said
property for recovering the amount due
on any mortgage bond or on any
agreement for sale in accordance with
any other written law.

semen of 15. Section 10 of the principal enactment is hereby

ihe" principa Fepealed and the following section substituted

enactment. therefor :—

“Registration 10. (1) No person acquiring an title or

ot subsequent interest or benefit in any condominium parcel

affecting of registered Condominium Property or of a

condominium registered Semi Condominium Property shall

parcel. be entitled to such title or interest, or benefit,
unless such title, or interest or benefit is
registered under the provisions of Registration
of Title Act, No. 21 of 1998.

7 (2) Upon accepting for registration, of any
instrument for conveying title or interest or
benefit in a condominium parcel, the Registrar
shall register same in the title register in
respect of relevant condominium parcel in the
prescribed manner and make suitable cross
references to registered Condominium Plan,
or registered Semi Condominium Plan.


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 45
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(3) The provisions of sections 40, 41, 42, 43,
4, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49 of the Registration of
Title Act, No. 21 of 1998, shall, mutatis mutandis,
applyin respect of subsequent transaction relating
to registered condominium parcel.”.

16. Section 11 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and the following section substituted section 1! ofthe
therefor :-— Principal

enactment.
“Sharesin 11, No share in the common elements of a
— registered, Condominium Property or of a
elements of "
the propery. Tegistered Semi Condominium Property shall
be disposed of or otherwise dealt with except
as appurtenant to.a condominium parcel of such
property, and any alienation of any
_ condominium parcel shall be deemed also to
convey the undivided share of the owner in the
common elements appertaining to that
condominium parcel notwithstanding the fact
that no specific or particular reference has been
‘made thereto in the instrument or deed relating
to such alienation.”,

17. Section 114 of the principal enactment is hereby Replacement of
repealed and following section substituted therefor :-— oe oF the:

“Accessory 114. (1) No accessory parcel or any share enactment
Parcels. or estate or interest therein shall be dealt with
independently of the condominium parcel to
which such accessory parcel has been made
appurtenant as shown on the relevant registered
‘Condominium Plan or on the relevant registered

Semi Condominium Plan.

(2) Any person who deals with any accessory
. parcel or any share, estate or interest therein
independently and not made as appurtenant to
the condominium parcel which such accessory
parcel is shown on the registered relevant


46 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

condominium plan or on the registered relevant

semi condominium plan, as being appurtenant

shall be guilty of an offence .

(3) Any assurance made in contravention
of the provisions of subsection (1), shall not be
registered under this Law and any registration
thereof shall be null and void and shall not pass
any estate or interest in the accessory parcel.

(4) Where such assurance has been
registered, the Registrar on discovery thereof
shall cancel the registration, and no person
affected by such cancellation shall be entitled
to any compensation.”.

Replacement of 18. Section 12 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 12 ofthe repealed-and the following section hereby substituted
lla therefor -—
enactment.
“Re-division 12 (1) Any owner or owners of the
amalgamation condominium parcels of the condominium
cindominium PrOPErty oF the semi condominium property
parcel. may, apply in writing to the Registrar, for the
registration of the Plan of re-division or the Plan
of amalgamation of the registered Condominium

Plan or of the registered Semi Condominium

Plan or of the Condominium Property or of the

‘Semi Condominium Property.

(2) An application under subsection (1)
shall be in a prescribed form and be
accompanied with —

(@) the prescribed fees ;

(b) the survey plan in triplicate (hereinafter
referred to as, the Plan of re-division or
the Plan of amalg amation of the
registered Condominium Plan or of the
registered Semi Condominium Plan)


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 47
Act, No. 39 of 2003
prepared and drawn by a licensed
surveyor, or by, or under the authority of
the Surveyor-General and shall —
(show the relevant changes effected,
to the existing condominium parcel
or parcels of the registered
Condominium Plan or of the
registered Semi Condominium Plan
due to re-division or amalgamation;

(ii) show the undivided share value and
the percentage of the individual
share of each condominium parcel
in common elements appurtenant to
the re-divided or amalgamated
condominium parcels ;

(iii) give reference number of the
cadastral map and the previous
registration number of certificate of
condominium title of each
condominium parcel ;

(©) acenificate from the qualified Architect
and qualified civil or structural engineer,
to the effect that the re-division or
amalgamation shown _ in the plan of
re-division or plan of amalgamation
conforms to the position existing on the
land ;

(@) a certificate from the General Manager
of the Condominium Management
‘Authority certifying that the re-division
or amalgamation does not cause any
adverse effect on the requirements of
control, administration, maintenance and
‘management of the common element of

i the Condominium Property or of the

Semi Condominium Property ;

ae “


48 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(e) approval of the relevant authority for such
re-division or amalgamation to be
affected to the approved building plan ;
() consent of the relevant mortgagee, if any
for such re-division or amalgamation to
be affected to such condominium parcel
(g) adeclaration of the applicant and attested
by a Notary Public, which shall contain

of — *

(i) registered full name of the owner
or owners and their addresses of the
relevant condominium parcel or
parcels that are being re-divided or
amalgamated and reference
numbers relating to certificates of
condominium title ;

(ii) changes to be effected to the
. ownership giving full names and
addresses of the owners of each re-
divided of amalgamated
condominium parcel, and the nature
of the instruments or documents to
be relied for such changes ;

(iii) undivided share value and
percentage of such value of each |
condominium parcel in the
common elements appurtenant to
such parcels, before and after such
re-division and amalgamation ;

(iv) _ the signature of the owner or owners
of the condominium parcel or parcels
of the Condominium Property or
Semi Condominium Property.”


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 49
Act, No. 39 of 2003

19. Section 13 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever — Sttion 13 ofthe
that word appears in that section of the word “parcel”, C coneit

20. Section 15 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever Serion 15 of the
that word appears in that section of the words “parcels”. Enactment,

21, Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended by the substitution for the word “units” wherever section 16 ofthe
that word appears in that section of the words “parcels”. Principal

22, Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :~ scoticali7 of Me}

principal
(1) by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units” °°c™ment.
wherever those words appears in that section of the
words “parcel” and “parcels” respectively ;
(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (4) of
that section of the following subsection :—
“(5) The provisions in sections 40, 41, 42,
43,44, 45, 46, 47, 48 and 49 of the Registration of
Title Act, No. 21 of 1998 shall apply, mutatis
mutandis, in relation to the execution of any
instrument and for the registration of such
instruments”.

23. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendmentof
amended by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units” section 18 ofthe
wherever those words appears in the section of the Panciral
words“parcel” and “parcels” respectively.

24, Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :~ section 19 of the

principal

(1) _ by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units” enactment.

wherever those words appear in that section of the
words “parcel” and “parcels” respectively ;


50 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(2) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “an owner of a unit may” of the words
“the Condominium Management Authority or an
‘owner of a condominium parcel may”.
‘Amendment of 25. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
oot as amended by the substitution for the word “units” wherever
enaciment. that word appears in the section of the word “parcels”.
‘Amendment of 26. Section 20a of the principal enactment is hereby
section 20A of the amended by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units”
(elle wherever these words appear in the section of the words
‘ “parcel” and “parcels” respectively.
‘Amendment of 27. Section 20s of the principal enactment is hereby
section 208 f the amended as follows —
principal
‘enactment.

(2) in subsections (1) of that section by the substitution
for the word “units” of the words “condominium.
parcels” and by the substitution for the words
“Condominium Plan” of the words “Condominium
Plan or the Semi Condominium plan” ;

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “Condominium Property” of the

: words “Condominium Property of the Semi
Condominium Property and by the substitution for
the words “units” of the words “condominium
parcels” ;

(3) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following -—

“(3) Immediately after the establishment of the
management corporation by virtue of the operation
of this Law, the Condominium Management
Authority shall subject to the provisions in the First
Schedule to this Law, summon, not later than three
months from the date of such establishment, the


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 51
Act, No. 39 of 2003

first annual general meeting of the management
corporation and elect the first council, and such
cancil shall cease to hold office at the next annual
general meeting. Upon the elections of the first
council, subject to the provisions in the First
Schedule, the council shall perform the duties and
exercise the powers of the management corporation
and conduct the business of the management
corporation on its behalf”.

(4) in subsections (5) and (6) of that section by the
substitution for the word “unit” of the words
“condominium parcel” ;

(5) in subsection (7) of that section by the substitution
for the words “owners of all the unit includes the
persons entitled to the Condominium Property” of
the words “owners of all the Condominium parcels”
includes the persons entitled to the condominium
Property or the Semi Condominium Property +

(6) by the insertion immediately after subsection (7)
of that section of the following subsection :—

“(8) The management corporation of the
registered semi condominium property shall,
continue to function as the management corporation
of the registered condominium property,
immediately after the conversion of such Semi
Condominium Property into a Condominium
Property, upon registration of such Condominium
Property by the Registrar.”. :

28. Section 20c of the principal enactment is héreby Amendment of

amended as follows :— section, 200 ot the!
H principal
i “iy enactment.

(1)_ by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units”
wherever those words appear in that section of the
words “condominium parcel” and “condominium


52 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
parcels” respectively ;
(2) in subsection (1) of that section — .
(@) in paragraph (g) of that subsection by the
substitution for the words “Condominium
Property” of the words “Condominium
Property or Semi Condominium Property” ;
(0) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (g)
of that subsection of the following paragraph :~
“(gg) to comply with any notice or order
made by any government, public authority
requiring the removal of any unauthorized
constructions effected to any Condominium
Property or Semi Condominium Property in
contravention of the approved building plan,
and to request and to assist the Condominium
Management Authority or the Urban
Development Authority or the local authority
for such removal ;”;
(3) in subsection (2) of that section —
(@)_by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(@) of that subsection of the following —
“(aa) to contract with the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board, the Ceyion
Electricity Board, any local authority,
any other authority or any other licensee
for the supply water, electricity and other
utilities for all condominium parcels of
the building and to provide such services
to all owners of the Condominium
parcels, on recovery of service charges,
and monthly charges for such
consumptions ;
(ab) to take every step to recover the monthly
charges, for the consumption of water,


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 53
Act, No. 39 of 2003
electricity and other utilities provided
by the National water Supply and
Drainage Board, the Ceylon Electricity
Board, any local authority any other
authority or licensee by way of
discontinuance of _ individual
connections for water or electricity or
other utilities and to continue the
discontinueance of such supply to such
condominium parcel, until the
respective charges are being paid to the
management corporation by the
respective owner or owners of the
condominium parcel or parcels;".
(6) by the insertion immediately after paragraph
(6) of that subsection of the following :-—
“(bb) to levy a monthly contribution on the
owners of all the condominium parcels
in proportion to the share parcels of their
respective condominium parcels for the
purposes mentioned in section 20H and
to recover such contribution from the
owners of all the condominium
parcels;”;
(©) by the addition immediately after paragraph
(©) of that section of the following paragraph:—
“() to take every steps to prevent and to
remove all unauthorized constructions
effected to the Condominium Property or
Semi Condominium Property in contrary
to the approved building plan and to
request or assist the Condominium
Management Authority or the Urban
Development Authority or any local
authority to remove such unauthorized
constructions.”..


54 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
‘Amendment of 29, Section 20D of the principal enactment is hereby
section 200. the amended by the substitution for the words “unit” and “units”
Pelscipal wherever those words appear in that section of the words
enactment. tho ‘on
“condominium parcel” and “condominium parcels”
respectively.
Anoteatet 30. Section 20c of the principal enactment is hereby
Bay amended as follows :-—
enactment.
(J) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “on the application of the
Management Corporation” of the words “on the
application of the Condominium Management
‘Authority or the Management Corporation”;
(2) by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever
the word appears in this section of the words
“condominium property”.
Amendment of 31. Section 20r of the principal enactment is hereby
Sincipa "amended by the substitution for the word “units” of the word
enactment. “condominium parcels”.
‘Amendment of 32. Section 20c of the principal enactment is hereby
section 206 of the amended as follows :—
principal
enactment (1) im subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “Condominium Plan” of the words
“Condominium Plan or in a Semi Condominium
Plan”;

(2) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :—

“(3) The by-laws set out in the Second Schedule
to this Law, shall, with effect from the registration
of Condominium Plan or a Semi condominium
Plan, be in force for all purposes in relation to every
sub-divided building.”;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 55
Act, No. 39 of 2003

(3) by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :-—

“(4) The management corporation may, subject
to the provisions of this Law and any other written
Jaw, by special resolution make additional by-laws,
not inconsistent with the by-laws set out in the
Second Schedule to this law, for safety and security
measures, details of any common property of which
the use is restricted, the keeping of pets, parking,
floor coverings, garbage disposal, behavior,
architectural and landscaping guidelines to be
‘observed by the owners of the Condominium
Parcels, and any other matters necessary for the
efficient management of the Condominium Property
and common elements of the Condominium
Property or Semi Condominium Property of the
relevant registered Condominium Plan or registered
‘Semi Condominium Plan.”

(4) in subsections (1) and (5) of that section by the
substitution for the word “Units” of the words
“condominium parcels”;

(5) by the repeal of subsection (6) of that section and
the substitution therefore, of the following
subsection -—

“(6) The management corporation and the
Condominium Management Authority shall—

(@) keep a record of the by-laws in force from
time to time;

(®) on receipt of an application in writing
made by the owner of a condominium
parcel or by a person duly authorized to
apply on behalf of the owner of a
condominium parcel for a copy of the by-


56 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003

laws in force, supply to such owner or duly
authorized person at a reasonable cost a
copy of the by-laws ; and

(©) on the application of any person who
satisfies the Condominium Management
Authority, or the management corporation
that he has a proper interest in so applying,
make available for inspection the by-
laws.”.

(6) in subsections (7) and (10) of that section by the
substitution for the word “unit” of the words “condominium
parcel”.

(7) by the repeal of subsection (9) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :-—

“(9) The Condominium Management Authority
or the management corporation or any owner of a
condominium parcel shall be entitled to apply to
the Court — :
(a) for an order to enforce the performance of or
to restrain the breach of any by-law by; or
(6) to recover damages for any loss or injury to
any person or property arising out of the breach
of any by-law,
from any person bound to comply therewith, the
Condominium Management Authority or the
management corporation or the administrator, and
the court may make such order against any such
person, the management corporation or the
members of its council, or the administrator, as the
court thinks fit.”.


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 37
Act, No. 39 of 2003
33. Section 20H of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :— section 204 ofthe
Principal
(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution “™*°™"*

for the words (hereinafter referred to as “the

management fund”) to the end of that section of

the following :-—

“to which the following shall be credited :—

(@)_ the contribution levied or, by the corporation
and paid by, the owners for payment into the
fund ;

(®) fines, interests, penal charges, premiums re-
connection charges, and deposits levied by the
corporation, and paid by the owners for
payment in to the fund ;

(©) the proceeds of the disposal of any personal
property of the corporation ;

@ all such sums of money as may be received by
the corporation in the exercise, discharge and
performance of its powers, functions and
duties;

(€) all such sums of money as may be received by
the corporation by way of loans, donations,
gifts or grants from any sources whatsoever,
whether in or outside in Sri Lanka.”.

(2). by the insertion immediately after subsection (1)
of that section of the following subsection -—

“(1a) There shall be paid out of the management

fund of the corporation all such sums of money

required to defray any expenditure incurred by the

corporation in the exercise, discharge and

performance of its powers, functions and duties,

subject to the limitation specified in this Law”.


58 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(3) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following :-—

“(2) The management corporation may by a
unanimous resolution or by a general resolution and
with the concurrence of the Condominium
Management Authority, invest as it thinks fit any
moneys of the management fund :

Provided, however such resolution and
concurrence shall not be required for the investment
in any fixed deposit account with a licensed
commercial bank, in any Treasury Bill, in the State
Mortgage and Investments Bank or the Housing
Development and Finance Corporation (Bank).”. .

(4) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following :—

“(3) For the purposes of establishing and
maintaining the management fund, the management
corporation for the purposes mentioned in
subsection (1) may, at a general meeting —

(@)_ determine from time to time the amounts to be
raised as contributions ;

() mise the amounts so determined by levying
contributions on the owners of all the
condominium parcels in proportion to the share
parcels of their respective condominium
parcels ;

(©) determine the amount of interest payable by
the owner of condominium parcels in respect
of late contributions ;

(@ determine the amount of deposit or penal
charges or reconnection charges, in the event
of disconnection of services such as water,
electricity or other utilities provided to the
respective condominium parcels and payable
by the owner of such condominium parcels.”;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 59
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(5) by the insertion immediately after subsection (3)
of that section of the following subsection :—
(3a) The management corporation shall
establish a sinking Fund. (hereinafter referred to as
the sinking Fund) as part of the management fund
for the emergency expenses of any major repair to
the common elements or discharge any other similar
obligation of the corporation and shall—

(@) from time to time at any general meeting
determine the amounts to be set aside to the
sinking fund ;

(6) not proceed to incur any expenditure out of the
sinking fund unless a special resolution or a
general resolution with the concurrence of the
Condominium Management Authority, has .
been passed as regards the specified amount to
be incurred as expenditure”.

(6) in subsections (4), (5) and (6) of that section by the
substitution for the word “unit” of the words
“condominium parcel”.

34. “Section 20s of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :-— sess NE
principal
enactment.

(1) by the substitution for the such “unit” wherever the
word appears in that section of the words
“condominium parcel”;

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (6)
of that section of the following subsection :-—

“(6a) Notwithstanding any thing to the
contrary in this Law or any other written law, the
management corporation shall have the power to


60 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

disconnect the supply of services such as water
services electricity or any other utilities provided
to the individual condominium parcel through the
management corporation, by the National Water
Supply and Drainage Board, the Ceylon Electricity
Board, any local authority any other authority or
licensee, if the owner of the condominium parcel
fails to pay any of the amounts demanded as per
the provisions specified in section 20x of this Act,
by the management corporation. The management
corporation shall not proceed to disconnect such
supply, unless —

(a) _aresolution is specially passed approving the
discontinuance of such service ;

(b) fourteen days notice of the intended
discontinuance along with the copy of the
resolution so passed is sent by registered mail
to the owner of the particular condominium
parcel.”,

‘Amendment of 35. Section 20k of the principal enactment is hereby

sha: ee the amended in subsection (1) by the substitution for all the words

‘camombae! from “each unit being liable” to the end of that subsection
of the following :-—

“each condominium parcel being liable under
such guarantee only for such proportion of the
money so incurred as the share parcel of that
condominium parcel bears to the aggregate share
parcel of all the condominium parcel.”.

‘Amendment of 36. Section 201 of the principal enactment is hereby
a ofthe amended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
enactment. for the word “unit” of the words “condominium parcel”.


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 61
Act, No. 39 of 2003
37. Section 20m of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :— section 20u ofthe
principal
enactment.
(1) by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever
that word appears in that section of the words
“condominium parcel” ;
(2) by the substitution for the words “management
corporation” of the words “Condominium
Management Authority or the management
corporation”.
38. Section 20n of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :-— section 208 ofthe
principal
‘enactment.
(1). by the substitution for the words “Condominium
Property” wherever those words appear in that
section of the words “Condominium Property or
Semi Condominium Property”. °
(2) by the substitution for the words “registered
Condominium Plan” of the words wherever those
words appear in that section of the words “registered
Condominium Plan” or “registered Semi
Condominium Plan” respectively ;
39. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment of
amended as follows :-— section 2 of iat
prineipal
enactment,
(1) by the substitution for the words Condominium
Plan” wherever those words appear in that section
of the words “Condominium Plan” or in a “Semi
Condominium Plan” ;
(2) by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever
that word appears in that section of the words
“condominium parcel” ;


62 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
° (3) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section and
the substitution therefore of the following :—
“(a) notify the Condominium Management
Authority and the insurer immediately and reinstate
the damaged portion of the subdivided building and
provide a scheme for the continued use of the
subdivided building in whole or in part subject to
the supervision of the Condominium Management
Authority.”.
‘Amendment of 40. Section 20g of the principal enactment is hereby
‘section 20g inthe — amended as follows :—
principal
‘miscinent- (1) by the substitution for the words “Condominium
Plan” wherever those words appear in the section
of the words “Condominium Plan or Semi
Condominium Plan” ;

(2) by the substitution for the words “Condominium
Property” wherever those words appears in that
section of the words “Condominium Property or
Semi Condominium Property” ;

(3)_ by the substitution for the words “unit” or “units”
wherever those words appear in that section of the
words “parcel” or “condominium parcels”
respectively ;

(4) _ in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for the words “and the lodge with the Registrar”,
of the words “lodge with the Registrar and the
Condominium Management Authority” ;

(5) by the repeal of paragraph (c) of subsection (8) of
that section, and the substitution therefore of the
following :-—

“(c) The Registrar on receipt of the
Condominium Title certificates relating to the
condominium parce! or condominium parcels, as


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 63
Act, No. 39 of 2003

the case may be, shall cancel the Condominium
Title certificates make the necessary entries in the
registers of Condominium Parcels of the
Condominium Property or Semi Condominium
Property, and thereafter the transferee shall deal
with the land parcel in accordance with the
provisions of the Registration of Title Act, No. 21
of 1998”.

(6) by the repeal of subsection (10) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following
subsection :-—

(10) Where a transfer of the Condominium
Property or Semi Condominium Property pursuant
to subsection (5) has been lodged with and
registered by the Registrar, the management
corporation shall continue in existence for the
purpose of winding up its affairs subject to the
supervision of the Condominium Management
Authority.” ;

(7) in subsection (11) of that section by the substitution
for the words “the management corporation of the
words"the Condominium Management Authority
or the Management Corporation ;” ;

(8) by the repeal of subsection (12) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following :—

“(12) Unless and until a liquidator is appointed
by court for the purpose of carrying out the winding
up of the affairs of the management corporation,
the Council of the management corporation, shall
continue to perform the manegement corporations’
business for the purpose of winding up its affairs,
subject to the supervision of the Condominium
Management Authority. On the appointment of a
liquidator all the powers of the council of the
management corporation shall cease and the


64 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
liquidator shall have the power to carry on the
‘management corporations’ business for the purpose
of winding up its affairs subject to the supervision
of the Condominium Management Authority.” .
(9) by the repeal of subsection 14 of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following :—
“(14) The court may on an application by the
Condominium Management Authority, a former
‘owner, a former mortgagee or the liquidator and on
being satisfied that the affairs of the management
corporation have been wound up, make an Order
that the liquidator be released and that the
management corporation be dissolved and on
lodgment of such Order for registration under this
Law, the Registrar shall then register and cancel
the records in the title register in respect of
condominium parcels of the condominium property
‘or semi condominium property, and shall notify
‘such cancellation to the Condominium Management
Authority’.
‘Amendment of 41. Section 26 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 260fthe amended as follows -—
principal
enactment (1) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “accessory unit” of the following :—
* “accessory parcel” means a parcel intended for
separate ownership and was with any other specified
condominium parcel or condominium parcels for
any purpose ; ’;

(2) in the definition of building by the substitution for
the words “condominium subdivision plan”
occurring in the definition of building of the words
“Condominium Plan or Semi Condominium Plan
of in the Provisional Condominium Plan ";


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 65
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

(3) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “Common Amenities Board” of the
following :—

“Condominium Management Authority” means
the Condominium Management Authority
established under. the Condominium
Management Authority Law, No 10 of 1973” ;

(4) in the definition of the expression of “common
elements” —

(@) by the substitution’ for the words
“Condominium Property of the words
“Condominium Property or semi
Condominium Property or. Provisional
Condominium Property” ;

(®)_ by the substitution for the “Condominium Plan”
of the words “Condominium Plan or Semi
Condominium or Provisional Condominium
Plan” ;

(©) by the substitution for the word ‘land’ of the
word ‘land parcel” ;

(@)_ by the substitution for the word “unit” of the
words “condominium parcel” ;

(5) by the substitution. for the definition of the
expression “condominium plan” of the following:-—
“Condominium Plan” means a plan of a

Condominium Property which -—

(a) ‘is described in the title or heading thereto
as Condominium Plan ;

(®) indicates the whole or any part of the land
parcel comprised therein a completed
building as being divided into two or more
storeys and is divided into two or more
condominium parcels or any building
having only one storey also be capable of
being subdivided into parcels ; and


66 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(©) contains the particulars set out in section 5;
(6) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression ‘condominium plan’ of the following
new definition :—

““condominium parcel” means a defined space
which is shown as an independent parcel on a
condominium plan or semi condominium plan
or provisional condominium plan and which
is designed for independent use consisting of
‘one or more rooms wherther occupying the
entirety or part of one or more storeys in a
building of more than one storey and which is
shown as a separate condominium parcel’ ;

(7) inthe definition of the expression of “encumbrance”
by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever
such word appears in that definition of the word
“parcel” ;

(8) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “land”of the following definition :—

““Jand parcel” includes land parcel of any tenure,
any building or parts thereof, so much of the
air-space above the surface as may be
reasonable used or enjoyed by any owner, and
all substances under the surface, (excluding
minerals within the meaning of the Mines and
Minerals Law, No. 4 of 1973) whether or not
held apart from the surface and any estate or
interest therein *;

(9) in the definition of the expression of “local
authority” by the substitution for the words
“Condominium Property” of the words
“Condominium Property, or Semi Condominium
Property or Provisional Condominium Property” ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 67
‘Act, No. 39 of 2003

(10) by the substitution of the definition for the
expression “management corporation” of the
following :-—

“management corporation” in relation to any one
or more completed subdivided buildings
shown in a condominium plan or any one or
more partly completed buildings shown in a
semi condominium plan, means the
management corporation established for those
buildings’ ;

(11) in the definition of the expression “owner” by the
substitution for the word “unit” of the words
“condominium parcel” ; .

(12) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the expression “prescribed” of the following —
“Provisional Condominium Plan” means a Plan of
“Provisional Condominium Property” which—
(a) is described in the title or heading thereto as

Provisional Condominium Plan ;

(b) indicates the whole or any part of the land
parcel, and the building proposed to be erected,
and shall be capable of being sub-divided into
parcels ;

(c) contains the particulars set out in section Sa ;

“prospective purchaser” means a person who is

: ‘a party to an agreement for sale agreeing to

purchase a ‘condominium parcel or

provisional condominium parcel, from the

owner of the Condominium Property or

Semi Condominium Property or Provisional
Condominium Property ;


68 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(a) “fecognised financial institution” means any
“licensed commercial bank” or a “licensed
specialised bank” within the meaning of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988 ; or
() any finance company registered under the
Finance Companies Act, No. 78 of 1988 ; or
(©)_ building society registered with Commissioner
of National Housing under National Housing
‘Act, Chapter 401 ;
(@) the National Housing Development Authority
established by Act, No. 17 of 1979 ; or
(e) any bank established by or under any law.
(13) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “Registrar” of the following :—
“Registrar” means the Registrar of Titles appointed
under the Registration of Title Act, No. 21 of
1998 and having jurisdiction over the
registration district in which the Condominium
Property or Semi Condominium Property or
Provisional Condominium Property is situated ;
(14) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
“Registrar” of the following new definition :-—
“Semi Condominium Plan” means a plan of a
partly completed Condominium Property
Which :—
(a) is described in the title or heading thereto
as Semi condominium Plan ;
(6) shows the whole or any part of the land
parcel comprised therein a partly
completed building having one storey,


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 69
Act, No. 39 of 2003

capable of being subdivided into two or
more condominium parcels with
provisions for future construction of two
or more storeys or partly completed
building having one storey capable of
being sub-diveded into parcels ;

(©) contains the particulars set out in section
in 53;

(@ has more than one completed
condominium parcels and such
condominium parcels are fit for human

. habitation ;
(15) by the substitution for the definition of the
expression “share unit” of the following :-—

“share parcel” in respect of a condominium parcel
means the share parcels determined for that
condominium parcel according to its share
value and shown as such in the Schedule
endorsed on the Condominium Plan or Semi
Condominium Plan or Provisional
Condominium Plan ;

(16) _ in the definition of the expression “storey” by the
substitution for the word “land” of the words “land
parcel” .

(17) in the definition of the expression “subdivided
building” by the substitution for the words
“Condominium Plan” of the words “Condominium
Plan or Semi Condominium Plan or Provisional
Condominium Plan” .

(18) by the omission of the definition of the expression
of “unit”. .


70 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(19) by the addition immediately after the definition of
the expression “unanimous resolution” of the
following definition of the expression :—
“unauthorized construction” means any
improvement or alteration to the condominium
parcel or ancillary parcel appurtenant to such
condominium parcel, any improvement or
alteration to the common elements, any
parceling or subdivision of the land parcel
where the condominium property or semi
condominium property is constructed, the
erection or re-erection of sub-structures and
the construction of works on the land parcel,
or any change in the use for which land parcel
or any building or any structure thereof is used,
\. without a valid permit from the authority who
have been empowered by law to approve the
bulding plan, or contrary to any term or
condition set out in the permit issued in respect
of the building plan approved for the relevant
Condominium Property or Semi
Condominium Property.
‘Amendment of the ' 42. The First Schedule to the principal enactment is
First Schedule to hereby amended as follows :—
the principal
— (1) by the substitution for the word “unit” wherever
the word “unit” appears in the Schedule of the words
“condominium parcel” ;
(2) in item 2 of the Schedule substitution for the words
“Condominium Plan No.” of the words
“Condominium Plan or Semi Condominium Plan
No.” ;
(3) by the repeal of item 3 (2) of the Schedule and the
substitution therefore of the following :
“(2) Where there are not more than three owners
the council shall consist of all the owners.”.


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) ™
Act, No. 39 of 2003
(4) in item 8 (5) of the Schedite by the substitution for

the words “council shall after its general meeting”,

of the words “council shall within thirty days after

its general meeting” ;

(5) in item 9 (2) of the Schedule (9) by the substitution

of the words “The first annual general meeting” of

the words “Subject to the provisions in subsection

(3) of the section 208 the First annual general

i meeting”.
(6) by the addition immediately after, item 10 (2) (b) :

of the following : a

“(c) shall convene an extra general meeting upon
a request in writing made by the Condominium
Management Authority. .
43. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is Amendment ofthe
_ Second Schedule
hereby amended as follows = ae ececeal
enactment
(1) jin the heading to the Schedule by the substitution

for the words “Registered Condominium Plan”, of

the words “REGISTERED CONDOMINIUM

PLAN OR REGISTERED SEMI CONDOMINIUM

"PLAN". ;
(2) initem (1) of the Schedule,—

(a) by the substitution for the words “registered
Condominium Plan” of the words “registered
Condominium’ Plan or registered Semi
Condominium Plan” ;

(b) by the substitution for the word “unit” of the
words “condominium parcel”, ;


2 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No, 39 of 2003

(3) in item 2 of the Schedule—

.  @ in item 2(a) (iv) by the substitution for the
words “in connection with the performance of
its duties” of the words “in connection with
the performance of its duties or exercise of its
powers” ;

(®) in item 2 (6) by the substitution for the words,
“carry out all work ordered by any
Government” of the words “carry out all work
including removal of all unauthorised
constructions ordered by the Government” ;

(©) by the addition immediately after item 2(¢) of
the following -—

“(i)_ pay his contribution to the management

fund of the corporation ; or
(®__payall monthly charges for consumption
of services such as water services,
electricity and other utilities provided
through the corporation including service
installation charges, and re-connection
charges in the event of disconnection of
services such as water services,
electricity and other utilities provided
through the corporation by National
Water Supply and Drainage Board,
Ceylon Electricity Board, Local
Authority any other authority or licensee.

(4) in item 5 of the Schedule,
(a) by the insertion immediately after item 5(a) of the
following —

“(aa) prevent the erection of any unauthorised
construction by any individual owners of
the condominium parcels contrary to the
approved building plan of the
Condominium Property or Semi
Condominium Property ;


Apartment Ownership (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 39.of 2003

(ab) request and assist the Condominium
Management Authority or the Urban
Development Authority or any local
authority to remove all unauthorised
constructions affecting the Condominium
Property or Semi condominium Property

in contrary to the approved building plan.”.

(6) by the addition immediately after item 5 (d) of the

following :-—

“(©)_ act as an agent for the service agencies, such
as the National Water Supply and Drainage
Board, the Ceylon Electricity Board any local
authority, any other authority or licensee for
the supply of water services, electricity and
other public utilities to the owners of the
condominium parcels and to send monthly or
periodical bills claiming charges for
consumption of such services and to recover
such charges from the respective owners of
the condominium parcels and remit such
charges to the respective service agencies.”.

(5) _ by the insertion immediately after item 6(6) of the
Schedule 7 of the following :—

(bb) make any alterations to his condominium

parcel in Contrary to the approved building
Plan of the Condominium Property or Semi
‘Condominium Property.”.

44, For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declared, Avoidance of
that until an Order under section 1 of the Registration of dubs:
Titles Act, No. 21 of 1998 is made extending the application
of the provisions of the aforesaid Act to any Province,
Administrarive District or Administrative Division as the case


4 Apartment Ownership (Amendment)
Act, No. 39 of 2003
may be, the Registration of Documents Ordinance (Chapter
117) shall continue to apply to and in relation to, the
registration in accordance with the provisions of this Act—
(@ of a Condominium Plan, a Provisional
‘Condominium Plan or a Semi Condominium Plan ;
(6) of a Plan of amendment of a registered
Condominium Plan, a registered Provisional
Condominium Plan or a registered Semi-
Condominium Plan ; and
(©) of a Plan of re-division or amalgamation of a
* “registered Condominium Plan or a registered Semi-
Condominium Plan,
in respect of any Condominium Property,Provisional
‘Condominium Property or Semi Condominium Property, as
the case may be, situated within any such aforementioned
Province, Administrative District or Administrative Division.
‘Sinhala text to 45. In the event of any inconsistency between the
prevail incase of Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
inconsisteney eval,


‘Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1.180

(Foreign), Payable to the SurERivTENDENT, GoveRNMeNT PuBLications BUREAU, No. 32.

‘Transwonks House, Lotus Rap, Co.omso 01 before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following.
