Y la: nena e. =
pr Ae OF
rear) Ga
; . ve
i ‘ NG
\e

!
] 5
/

PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON)
ord Session 1967-68 ¢4

/
i”
“:

State Printing Corporation

Act, No. 24 of 1968

Date of Assent: June 16, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoveRNmEeNT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CoLoMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BurREAU, P. O. Box 500, Coromszo 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued

before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 65 cents Postage: 20 cents


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968
L. D.—-0.28/67.

AN ACT TO 'PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT AND
REGULATION OF A PRINTING AND PUBLICATION
CORPORATION IN CEYLON.

[Date of Assent: June 16, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the State Printing
Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968, and shall come
into operation on such date as may be appointed
by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette.

ParT I

Constitution, Powers and Duties of the State
Printing Corporation and its Board of Directors

2. (1) There shall be established a Corporation
which shall be called the “‘ State Printing Corpo-
ration” (hereinafter referred to as “ the Corpo-
ration’) and which shall consist of the persons
who are for the time being members of the
Corporation under section 3.

(2) The Corporation shall by the name assigned
to it by sub-section (1) be a body corporate and
shall have perpetual succession and a common
seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

3. The members of the Board of Directors shall
-‘ be the members of the Corporation.

4. The general objects of the Corporation shall

(a) to carry out any printing work or any printing
and publishing work required by the
Government, local bodies or any cor-
__ poration established by law or any board
established by or under any law ; and

Or to do all such other acts or dings as are

» necessary for, or incidental to, the attain-
ment of the — objects herein before
mentioned. ;

Short title and
date of opera-
tion.

Establishment
of State Printing
Corporation.

Members of the
Corporation.

General
objects of the
Corporation.


2

Powers of the

Corporation.

State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

5; Q) The Corporation may exercise all or any
of the following powers :—

(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease
or hire, mortgage, pledge and sell or >
otherwise dispose of, any immovable or
movable property ;

(b) to do anything for the purpose of advancing
the skill of persons employed by the
Corporation, or the efficiency of the equip-
ment of the Corporation or the manner
in which that equipment is operated,
including the provision by the Corporation
and the assistance of the provision by
others, of facilities for training persons
required to carry out the work of the
Corporation ; ,

(c) to establish a provident fund, and provide
welfare and recreational facilities, houses,
hostels and other like accommodation for
persons employed by the Corporation ;

(d) to construct, manufacture, purchase, maintain

i and repair anything required for the
purpose of the business of the Corpora- ~;:
tion; ©) | |

(ce) to make charges for any service rendered
by the Corporation in carrying on such
business ; |

(f) to enter into and perform or carry out,
whether directly or through any officer

. or agent authorized in that. behalf by

the Corporation, all such contracts or

1 agreements as may be necessary for the
exercise of the powers of the Corporation ;

(g) to make rules in relation to its officers and
a servants, including their appointment,
promotion, remuneration, disciplinary
- control, conduct and the grant of leave

to them ; » ifaddug bey

(h) to make rules in respect of the administration
of the affairs of the Corporation ; and

(i) to do all other things which, in the opinion _

Kf of the Corporation, are necessary to ~
facilitate the proper carrying on of its
business. sHoiTasrn


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

The exercise of its powers by the Corporation
shall not prejudicially affect the security of service
of, and the terms and conditions of employment
enjoyed by, the employees of the Government
Press.

6. (1) The Minister may give to the Board
of Directors general or special directions
in writing as to the performance of the duties
and the exercise of the powers of the Corporation,
and such Board shall give effect to such directions.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, direct
in writing the Board of Directors to furnish to
him, insuch form as he mayrequire, returns, accounts
and other information with respect to the property
and business of the Corporation, and such Board
shall carry out every such direction.

(3) The Minister may, from time to time, order
all or any of the activities of the Corporation
to be investigated and reported upon by such
person or persons as he may specify, and, upon
such order being made, the Board of Directors
shall afford all such facilities, and furnish all such
information, as may be necessary to carry out
the order.

7. (1) The Corporation shall have a Board of
Directors consisting of five members, three of
whom shall be appointed by the Minister and
two of whom shall be appointed by the Minister
in charge of education.

(2) A person shall be disqualified for being
appointed or continuing as a Director—

(a) if he is a Senator or a Member of Parliament ;
or

(5) if he, directly or indirectly, by himself or by
any person on his behalf or for his use or
benefit, holds or enjoys any right or benefit
under any contract made by or on behalf
of the Corporation ; or

(c) if he has any such financial or other interest
as is likely to affect prejudicially the
discharge by him of his functions as a
Director.

Powers of the
Minister in rela-
tion to the Cor-
poration.

Board of
Directors.


4 State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

Remuneration
of Directors.

Director to dis-
close interest in
contract pro-
posed to be made
by the Corpo-
ration.

Quorum for
meeting of Board
of Directors.

(3) Where a Director is, by reason of illness or
other infirmity or absence from Ceylon, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the
appropriate Minister may appoint any person to
act in his place.

(4) The appropriate Minister may, without assign-
ing a reason, remove any Director from office.
The removal of any Director from office by the
appropriate Minister shall not be called in question
in any court.

(5) A Director may resign the office of Director
by letter addressed to the appropriate Minister.

(6) Subject to the provisions of sub-section
(4) and sub-section (5) the term of office of a
Director shall be three years :

Provided that a Director appointed in place of a
Director who dies or resigns or otherwise vacates
office shall, unless he earlier resigns or otherwise
vacates office, hold office for the unexpired part of
the term of office of the Director whom he succeeds.

(7) In this section, “ appropriate Minister ” .
means the Minister by whom the Director concerned
was appointed.

8. All or any of the Directors may be paid such
remuneration, out of the funds of the Corporation,
as may be determined by the Minister, with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance.

9. A Director who is directly or indirectly
interested in a contract proposed to be made by the
Corporation shall disclose the nature of his interest
at a meeting of the Board of Directors. The
disclosure shall be recorded in the minutes of suc
Board, and such Director shall not take part in any
deliberation or decision of such Board with respect
to such contract.

10. The quorum for any meeting of the Boardof
Directors shall be three.


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968 5

11. The Chairman of any meeting of the Board
of Directors shall, in addition to his own vote, havea
casting vote.

12. Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
the Board of Directors may regulate the procedure
in regard to the meetings of such Board and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

13. The Board of Directors may act notwith-
standing a vacancy among the members thereof.

14. The Board of Directors shall administer the
affairs, may exercise the powers, and shall perform
the duties, of the Corporation.

15. (1) The Board of Directors may delegate
to the Chairman or any other Director or any
employee of such Board any of its powers and duties.

(2) The Chairman, other Director or employee
to whom any of the powers or duties of the Board
have been delegated under sub-section (1) shall
exercise or perform the powers or duties so dele-
gated subject to the general or special directions of
the Board of Directors.

16. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman
of the Board of Directors from among the Directors.

(2) If the Chairman is, by reason of illness or
other infirmity or absence from Ceylon, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the
Minister may appoint one of the Directors to act
in his place.

(3) The Minister may, without assigning a reason,
terminate the appointment of the Chairman. The
termination of the appointment of the Chairman
shall not be called in question in any court.

(4) The Chairman may resign the office of
Chairman by letter addressed to the Minister.

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section
(3), and sub-section (4), the term of office of the
Chairman shall be the period of his membership
of the Board of Directors.

17. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in
the custody of the Board of Directors.

Chairman of any
meeting of
Board of Direc-
tors to have a
casting vote.

Regulation of
procedure.

Board of Direc-
tors may act des-
pite vacancy.

Board of Direc-
tors to adminis-
ter the affairs of
the Corporation.

Delegation of
powers and
duties of Board
of Directors.

Chairman of
Board of
Directors.

Seal of the
Corporation.


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

Capital of the
Corporation.

Borrowing
powers of the
Board of
Directors.

Investment
of funds of the
Corporation.

_ (2) The seal of the Corporation may be altered
in such manner as may be determined by the Board
of Directors.

(3) The seal of the Corporation shall not be
affixed to any instrument or document except in the
presence of a member of the Board of Directors
who shall sign the instrument or document in token
of his presence.

ParT II

Finance

18. (1) The initial capital of the Corporation
shall be determined by resolution of the House of
Representatives, and the amount of such capital
shall be paid to the Corporation out of the Con-
solidated Fund of Ceylon.

(2) The capital of the Corporation may be
increased from time to time by such amount as
may be determined by resolution of the House of
Representatives, and that amount shall be paid
to the Corporation out of the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon.

(3) The Board of Directors may request the
Minister for such advances from the Consolidated
Fund of Ceylon as may be necessary for meeting
the obligations of the Corporation or discharging
its duties under this Act and the Minister may, in
consultation with the Minister of Finance, authorize
such advances as may be required by way of loan
carrying interest, repayable in such instalments
and under such terms and conditions as may be
determined by the Minister of Finance.

19. The Board of Directors may, with the
consent of the Minister, borrow temporarily, by
way of overdraft or otherwise, such sums as the
Board may require for meeting the obligations of
the Corporation or discharging its duties under this
Act.

20. Any funds of the Corporation which are
not immediately required for the purposes of the
business of the Corporation may be invested by
the Board of Directors in such manner as the
Board may determine with the approval of the
Minister. |


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968 7

21. The revenue of the Corporation in any year Application of

shall be applied in defraying the following charges
in the order of priority set out hereunder :—

(a) the working and establishment expenses (in-
cluding allocations to the insurance reserve
and depreciation reserve), in connection
with the exercise and performance of the
powers and duties of the Corporation,
properly chargeable to revenue account ;

(b) the interest on any temporary loan raised
by the Corporation ;

(c) any sums required to be transferred to any
sinking fund or redemption fund ; and

(d) the interest on and the repayment of the
principal of any Government loan to the
Corporation.

22. (1) The Board of Directors—

(a) may establish and maintain an insurance
reserve to cover the insurance of the
movable and immovable property of the
Corporation and liabilities arising under
ne. Workmen’s Compensation Ordinance ;
an

(b) shall establish and maintain—

(i) a depreciation reserve to cover the
depreciation of the movable and
immovable property of the
Corporation, and

(ii) a general reserve not exceeding such
amount as may from time to time
be determined by the Minister
with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance.

(2) Such amount out of the surplus of the revenue
of the Corporation in any year remaining after
the charges mentioned in section 21 have been
satisfied as can be paid to the general reserve
without causing it to exceed the amount determined
under paragraph (b) (ii) of sub-section (1) shall be
paid to that reserve and the balance, if any, of
such surplus shall be paid to the Deputy Secretary
to the Treasury to be credited to the Consolidated
Fund of Ceylon.

the revenue of
the Corporation.

Reserves.


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

23. (1) The Board of Directors shall cause
proper accounts of the income and expenditure of
the Corporation and of all its other transactions
to be kept and shall prepare an annual statement
of accounts and statistics relating to the business
of the Corporation in such form and containing
such particulars as the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance may from
time to time specify.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation shall be
audited annually by a qualified auditor (hereinafter
referred to as “the auditor”) appointed by the
Minister on the advice of the Auditor-General.
The auditor so appointed shall be— :

(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council
of that Institute ; or

(6) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the
partners of which, being a member of that
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute.

The auditor shall receive such remuneration
from the funds of the Corporation as the Minister
may, with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance, determine.

(3) The Auditor-General shall have power—

(a) to direct the manner in which the accounts.
of the Corporation shall be audited by the
auditor and to give the auditor instructions.
in regard to any matter relating to the
performance of his functions as auditor,
and

(b) to conduct a supplementary or test audit of
the accounts of the Corporation by such
person or persons as the Auditor-General
may authorize in that behalf and, for the
purposes of such audit, to require informa-
tion or additional information to be
furnished to any person or persons SO
authorized on such matters, by such
person or persons, and in such form, as
the Auditor-General may, by general or
specia! order, direct.


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968 9

(4) The auditor shall examine the accounts of the
' Corporation and furnish a report stating—

(a) whether he has or has not obtained all the
information and explanations required by
him, and

(b) whether in his opinion the accounts have
been drawn up so as to exhibit a true and
fair view of the affairs of the Corporation.

(5) The auditor shall submit a copy of his audit

report to the Auditor-General who shall have the -
right to comment upon, or supplement, the auditor’s .

report in such manner as the Auditor-General may
think fit.

(6) The Auditor-General shall transmit the audi-
tor’s report together with his comments upon, or
his supplement to, such report to the Board of
Directors.

24. The Auditor-General and the auditor
appointed under section 23, and any person autho-
rized by either of them, shall have access to all such
books, deeds, contracts, vouchers and other docu-
ments of the Corporation as the Auditor-General
or such auditor considers necessary for the purposes
of the audit, and shall be furnished by the Directors
and officers of the Corporation with such infor-
mation within their knowledge as may be required
for such purposes.

25. (1) The Board of Directors shall, as soon
as possible after the end of each financial year of the
Corporation, make to the Minister a report on the
exercise and performance by such Board of its
powers and duties during that year and on its
. policy and programme. Such report for any year
shall set out any direction given by the Minister
to the Board of Directors during that year.

(2) The Board of Directors shall, on receipt of
the auditor’s report and the Auditor-General’s
comments thereon and supplement thereto, if any,
in each year, transmit to the Minister—

(a) a copy of such report and such comments
or supplement, and

(6) a copy of the statement of accounts and
statistics prepared under sub-section (1) of
section 23.

Powers of the
Auditor-General
and the auditor
appointed by the
Minister.

Report of the
Board of Direc-
tors and copies
of the auditor’s
report, the Audi-
tor-General’s
comments and
supplement and
the statement of
accounts and
statistics to be
sent to the
Minister and
laid before the
Senate and the
House of Repre-
sentatives.


‘10 ~~“ State Printing Corporation Act, No.240f 1968

Appointment of
-officers, ser-
vants and agents

of the Corpo-
ration.

‘Officers and ser-
vants of the Cor-
poration deemed
to be public ser-
vants.

The Corporation
deemed to be a
scheduled insti-
tution within the
meaning of the
Bribery Act.

(3) The Minister shall lay copies of the reports
and statements referred to in sub-sections (1) and
(2) before the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives.

ParT III

Employees of the Corporation
26. (1) The Corporation shall have the power—

(a) to appoint such officers and servants as may
be necessary for the purposes of the
Corporation ; and

(b) to exercise disciplinary control over and
dismiss any officer or servant of the
Corporation.

(2) The officers and servants of the Corporation
shall be remunerated at such rates as the
Corporation may determine.

(3) At the request of the Corporation any officer
in the public service may, with the consent of the
officer and of the Secretary to the Treasury, be
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Corporation
for such period as may be determined by the
Corporation with like consent, or be permanently
appointed to such staff.

(4) Where any officer in the public service is
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Corporation,
sub-section (2) of section 9 of the Motor Transport
Act, No. 48 of 1957, shall mutatis mutandis apply to
and in relation to him.

(5) Where any officer in the public service is
permanently appointed to the staff of the Corpo-
ration, sub-section (3) of section 9 of the Motor
Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957, shall mutatis
mutandis apply to and in relation to him.

27, A\ll officers and servants of the Corporation
shall be deemed to be public servants within the
meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

28. The Corporation shall be deemed to be a
scheduled institution within the meaning of the
Bribery Act and the provisions of that Act shall be
construed accordingly. ;


State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968 Il

PART IV

General

29. (1) The Minister may make regulations
for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to
the principles and provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall
be published in the Gazette and shall come into
operation on the date of such publication or on
such later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall,
as soon as convenient after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before the Senate and the
House of Representatives for approval. Any
regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of the
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.

30. (1) Any expense incurred by the Corporation
in any suit or prosecution brought by or against the
Corporation before any court shall be paid out of
the funds of the Corporation, and any costs paid
to, or recovered by, the Corporation in any such
suit or prosecution shall be credited to the funds of
the Corporation.

(2) Any expense incurred by any member, officer
or servant of the Corporation in any suit or prose-
cution brought against him before any court in
respect of any act which is done or purports to be
done by him under this Act or on the direction of
the Board of Directors shall, if the court holds
that such act was done in good faith, be paid out of
the funds of the Corporation, unless such expense is
recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

Regulations.

Expenses and
recoveries in
connection
with court
Proceedings.



12 State Printing Corporation Act, No. 24 of 1968

No writ to issue
against person or
property of a
member of the

Corporation.

Interpretation.

_ 31. No writ against person or property shall be
issued against a member of the Corporation in any
action brought against the Corporation.

32. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—

“ Board of Directors’? means the Board of
Directors constituted under this Act;
and

‘“ Director’? means a member of the Board of
Directors.
