PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 43 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.30.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 02, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

Short title

Amendment ofsection 5 ofChapter 101

[Certified on 02nd of August, 2024]

L.D.-O. 72/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CIVIL PROCEDURE CODE (CHAPTER 101)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. This Act may be cited as the Civil Procedure Code(Amendment) Act, No. 43 of 2024.

2. Section 5 of the Civil Procedure Code (Chapter 101)(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression decree, of the following new definition:-

electronic shall have the same meaning assigned toit by the Electronic Transactions Act, No.19 of2006;.

3. Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the repeal of paragraph (a) thereof, and the substitutiontherefor of the following new paragraph: -

(a) a party plaintiff or a party defendant resides; or.

4. Section 27 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows: -

(1) in subsection (1) thereof-

(a) in paragraph (b) by the substitution, for thewords party whom he represents; and, ofthe words party whom he represents;; and

(b) by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following newparagraphs: -

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 20242

(c) include an electronic mail address and amobile phone number to which service of anyprocess, notice or any other legal documentsmay also be served on a registered attorney;

(d) contain a memorandum substantially in theForm No. 16A of the First Schedule induplicate setting out the address, mobilephone number and the electronic mailaddress, if any, of such party which shall beconsidered as the registered address, theregistered mobile phone number and theregistered electronic mail address,respectively of such party. The registeredattorney shall with such memorandum tenderto the Registrar stamps to the value requiredto cover cost of service of such notices orother legal document by registered post andthe registered attorney shall bear the cost ofcourier service or service through electronicmeans;;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthe following new subsection:-

(2A) (a) Where a party is represented by aregistered attorney, such attorney shall in theappointment, state the national identity cardnumber, passport number or any other mode ofidentification, as the case may be, of the party andshall also make an endorsement thereon certifyingthe identity of such party. Where the party is acompany or a body corporate the appointment shallbe made under the seal of such company or a bodycorporate as the case may be.

3Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

(b) In the event a person who resides outsideSri Lanka is unable to meet his registered attorneyto sign the appointment under subsection (1), suchappointment shall be signed in the presence of anyof the following authorized persons who shall certifythe identity of such person: -

(i)an Attorney-at-Law, a solicitor, a lawyer ora Notary of the country where such partyresides; or

(ii)the High Commissioner, the Ambassador, adiplomatic officer or a consular officer ofthe Sri Lankan High Commission, Embassyor Consular Office in the country in whichsuch party resides.

(c) In the case of any delay or any difficultyto produce the original of the appointment withinthe specified time, a copy of the original inelectronic form may be produced in court subjectto production of the original of such appointmentwithin a reasonable time as the court may direct..

5. Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section, andthe substitution therefor of the following subsections: -

(2)(a) Every party to an action, not appearing by aregistered attorney, shall on or before the date specifiedin the summons deliver to the Registrar a memorandumsubstantially in the Form No. 16A in the First Schedulein duplicate setting out the address, mobile phonenumber and the electronic mail address if any, whichshall be considered as the registered address, the

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 20244

registered mobile phone number and the registeredelectronic mail address respectively of such party forthe service of the notices or any other legal documentrequired to be served on such party under the provisionsof this Code unless otherwise provided. Every partyshall inform the Registrar forthwith of any change inthe address, the mobile phone number or the electronicmail address.

(b) Every party shall with such memorandum tenderto the Registrar stamps to the value required to covercost of service of such notices or other legal documentby registered post. He shall bear the cost of courierservice or service through electronic means.

(3) Where a party appears by a registered attorney,the address, the mobile phone number and theelectronic mail address of the registered attorneycontained in his appointment under section 27 shall bedeemed to be the registered address, the registeredmobile phone number and the registered electronic mailaddress of such Attorney-at-Law so long as theappointment is in force.

(4) Any notice or other legal document required tobe served on any party shall be deemed sufficientservice if served by registered post or courier service orthrough electronic means-

(i)on such party on the registered address, theregistered mobile phone number or theregistered electronic mail address of suchparty; or

5Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

(ii)on such registered attorney, where a partyappears by a registered attorney and suchappointment is in force, on the registeredaddress, the registered mobile phone numberand the registered electronic mail address ofsuch registered attorney.

(5) The Registrar shall file one copy of thememorandum substantially in the Form No. 16Afurnished to him as part of the record of the case andkeep and maintain the other copy by way of a separateledger..

6. Section 59 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

59. (1) (a) Summons shall ordinarily beserved by the process server, registered post orcourier service.

(b) Where the plaintiff wishes summons mayalso be served through electronic mail, allnecessary documents shall be submitted by theplaintiff to the relevant court in electronic form.

(2) In the case of a company or a bodycorporate summons may be delivered by theprocess server, registered post, courier serviceor electronic mail if any to the registered officeor to the principal place of business of suchcompany or body corporate.

(3) Where the defendant is a public officer,the court may send summons by the processserver, registered post or courier service to the

Replacement ofsection 59 of theprincipalenactment

Service ofsummons

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 20246

head of the department in which the defendantis employed, and it shall be the duty of suchhead of department to cause the summons tobe served personally on the defendant.

(4) Where the court is prima facie satisfiedthat the defendant is in the employment ofanother person, the court may send thesummons by the process server, registered postor courier service to the employer at his placeof business or, where the employer is a companyor a body corporate, to any secretary, manageror other like officer of the company or the bodycorporate, and it shall be the duty of suchemployer or officer, as the case may be, to causethe summons to be served personally on thedefendant.

(5) Where a defendant appears in court inperson on summons being served on him inthe manner referred to above, he shall producethe national identity card or passport or anyother mode of identification as the court maydeem fit.

(6) In this section-

head of department -

(a)when used with reference to amember of any unit of the SriLanka Army, Navy or Air Force,means the Commanding Officerof that unit;

7Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

(b)when used with reference to aperson employed in a localauthority, where the localauthority is a MunicipalCouncil, means the MunicipalCommissioner of that Counciland where the local authority isan Urban Council or aPradeshiya Sabha, means theChairman or the Secretary of thatCouncil or Sabha;

(c)when used with reference to anyother public officer means thehead of the department ofGovernment in which suchperson is employed; and

national identity card means theidentity card issued to such personunder the Registration of PersonsAct, No. 32 of 1968..

7. Section 60 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

60. (1) (a) Where the summons are servedby the process server, the summons shall beaccompanied by a precept in the Form No. 17of the First Schedule.

(b) (i) The process server may, upon thesummons being served on the defendant,obtain the signature or the thumb impressionof such defendant on the precept asacknowledgment of the service of summons.

Replacement ofsection 60 of theprincipalenactment

Service bythe processserver

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 20248

(ii) The process server shall return theprecept to the court, together with a reportsetting out the manner in which the summonswas served on the defendant containingparticulars relating to the identity of theperson, date, time and place the summons wereserved. The report shall also state whetherdefendant, placed or refused to place hissignature or thumb impression, on the preceptas acknowledgment of the service of summons.

(iii) The refusal by any defendant to placethe signature or thumb impression, as the casemay be, on the precept shall not be consideredas an invalidation of the service of summons.

(2) If the service referred to in the precedingprovisions of this section cannot by theexercise of due diligence be effected, the courtmay having obtained an affidavit from theplaintiff stating that to the best of hisknowledge the defendant resides in thecaptioned address and not living outside SriLanka, order the process server to affix thesummons at some conspicuous part of the housein which the defendant ordinarily resides or inthe case of a company or a body corporate, atthe registered office or at the usual place ofbusiness or office of such company or a bodycorporate and in every such case the summonsshall be deemed to have been duly served onthe defendant.

(3) The Court may authorise the processserver to serve the summons outside the locallimits of the court as directed by the court.

9Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

(4) Where it is reported by the process serverthat the summons could not be affectedpersonally on the defendant on the last knownaddress given by the plaintiff and the plaintiffinforms Court by filling affidavit that theplaintiff is unaware of the place where thedefendant resides, the court upon beingsatisfied on the contents of such affidavit, orderthat the summons be served by way ofpublication in newspapers in all threelanguages as the court may in each case direct.

(5) For the purpose of this chapter-

process server means a fiscal, adeputy fiscal, an officerauthorized by the Judge orRegistrar of the court to servedocuments of the court withinthe local limits or outside thelocal limits of the court asdirected by the court, or theGrama Niladhari within whosedivision the defendant resides..

8. Section 61 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

61. When summons are served by-

(a) registered post or courier service, theregistered post article receipt or proofof delivery of courier service;

(b) electronic mail, the proof of sendingof the electronic mail by the Registrarand filed as part of the case record;

Replacement ofsection 61 of theprincipalenactmentProof ofservice

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 202410

(c) publication in newspapers, copies ofsuch publications; or

(d) in any other manner, an affidavit ofsuch service,

shall be sufficient evidence of the service ofthe summons and of the date of such service,and shall be admissible in evidence and thestatements contained therein shall be deemedto be correct unless and until the contrary isproved..

9. Section 66 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor: -

66. In an action to obtain relief orcompensation for wrong in respect of animmovable property or connected thereto, ifthe service cannot be made on the defendantin person, it may be made on any agent of thedefendant in charge of the property and in caseswhere such agent cannot be found the courtmay direct that the summons shall be affixedat some conspicuous part of such property..

10. Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor: -

68. (1) If the defendant be in jail, thesummons shall be delivered by the processserver to the officer in charge of the jail in whichthe defendant is confined, and such officershall cause the summons to be servedpersonally on the defendant and obtain anacknowledgement of receipt of the summonsby the defendant.

Replacement ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment

Replacement ofsection 68 of theprincipalenactment

Service onagent oraffixing onimmovableproperty

Service ondefendant injail

11Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

(2) The precept shall be returned throughthe process server to the court from which it isissued, with a statement of the service endorsedthereon, and signed by the officer in charge ofthe jail.

(3) Where any defendant is in prison onthe summons returnable date the officer incharge of the prison shall produce thedefendant to the Court ..

11. Section 70 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words and figures otherrequirements of section 55., of the words and figures otherrequirements of section 55. Such service can be effected bycourier service or by any legal firm authorised by the laws ofsuch country where the defendant resides and the proof ofpersonal service of summons shall be submitted to thecourt..

12. The following new chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter VIII of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as Chapter VIIIA of that enactment:-

CHAPTER VIIIASERVICE OF ORDERS

71A. The Court may, in addition to theservice of documents, direct the Registrar tocommunicate any order of court including anenjoining order, an injunction, an interiminjunction, a sequestration order and an interimorder to the parties concerned by way ofelectronic or telephone devices..

Amendment ofsection 70 of theprincipalenactment

Insertion of newChapter VIIIA inthe principalenactment

Communicationof Orders

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 202412

13. Section 86 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following: -

(2) Where,

(a) at anytime after the case is fixed for ex-partetrial against the defendant for default; or

(b) any time after the decree is entered againsthim for default but without the service of thedecree on him; or

(c) within fourteen days of the service of thedecree entered against him for default,

the defendant, with notice to the plaintiff makesapplication to and thereafter satisfies court, that he didnot receive the summons or that he had reasonablegrounds for such default, the court shall set aside theorder fixing the case for ex-parte trial, the judgementand decree as the case may be and permit the defendantto proceed with his defence as from the stage of defaultupon such terms as to costs or otherwise as to the courtshall deem fit..

14. Section 653 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution, for the words one thousandfive hundred rupees, of the words two million rupees..

15. The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended as follows: -

(1) by the repeal of Form No. 7 thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following form:-

Amendment ofsection 653 ofthe principalenactment

Amendment ofsection 86 of theprincipalenactment

Amendment toFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment

13Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

FORM OF APPOINTMENT OF A REGISTERED

ATTORNEY

Know all men by these presents that I/

we, holder of National

Identity card bearing no..

.

have nominated, constituted and appointed, and do hereby

nominate constitute and appoint

.Attorney-at-Law to

be my/our registered Attorney and for

.. and in

name and

behalf before the .

to appear and therein to (sue or defend, as the case may be,

showing what the action is)

And to receive and to take all moneys that may be paid to

him by the said in the said action, and

to move for and obtain in his name any order or orders

from the said Court for any payments of any sum or sums

of money that may be deposited therein in respect of

, and to give all necessary

receipts, releases and discharges therefor. And if need be,

to refer the case to the award and decision of arbitrators

and to name an arbitrator for , and

for that purpose to sign any motion, submission, or bond;

or, if necessary to allow and consent to a judgement being

entered against .. as to

. said Attorney-at-Law shall

appear fit and proper; and against any judgment, order,

sentence, or decree interlocutory or final of the said Court

to appeal to the High Court, Court of Appeal or Supreme

Court; and every bond or recognizance whatsoever

No. 7 [Section 27]

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 202414

necessary in the course of proceedings for the prosecution

of such appeal for and in name

and as act to sign, and

upon any judgement or order of the said

Court to proceed to execution

against the person and property of the said

And do further authorize and

empower .. said Attorney-at-Law, to

take and use all lawful ways and means, and to do and

perform all such acts, matters and things as may be necessary

in and about the premises which being

personally present might or could lawfully do, and, if

necessary, one or more Attorney or Attorneys-at-Law or

counsel, to appoint, and again at pleasure such appointment

to revoke, and . further promise and agree

to release all kinds of irregularities, and to ratify, confirm,

and allow all and whatsoever the said Attorney-at-Law or

his substitute or substitutes, or the said counsel, shall do

herein.

Witness . hand at

on this .day of

20

I certify that I am satisfied with the identity of the said

...(name/s) according to the

National Identity Card/Passport/ Senior Citizen Identity

Card/Driving Licence bearing number

. and he/she/they signed before

me on .................................................

.

Signature/s

15Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

Address:

Phone numbers: Office :

Mobile :

Electronic mail Address:

Fax Number:

(2)by the repeal of Form No. 16A thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following form :-

No. 16A [Sections 27 and 55]

MEMORANDUM OF REGISTERED ADDRESS /

REGISTERED MOBILE PHONE NUMBER /

REGISTERED ELECTRONIC MAIL ADDRESS

In the Commercial High Court /

District Court /

Primary Court of

Case No. :

I,.(the Plaintiff/

Defendant/Petitioner/Respondent/Party seeking to be added/

substituted) hereby furnish my address/ mobile phone

number/ electronic mail address for the service of the notices

and all other legal documents required to be served on me

under this Code.

Signature of the registered Attorney/

Attorney-at-Law/Solicitor/Notary/

Ambassador/High Commissioner/

Diplomatic Officer/Consular Officer.

.

(Seal)

Signature of the registered

Attorney (Seal).;

.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 202416

I undertake to inform the Registrar of any change of the

registered address/registered mobile phone number/

registered electronic mail address forthwith by submitting

another memorandum in the same form.

Address:

Mobile Phone Number:

Electronic mail Address:

Fax Number:

(3)by the repeal of Form No. 17 thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following form:-

No. 17 [Sections 60, 71A]

FORM OF PRECEPT TO PROCESS SERVER TO SERVE

SUMMONS OR ORDERS

To the Fiscal / Authorized Officer / Grama Niladhari of the

.

Court/Division of ..

Serve forthwith the summons in the above-named action,

which, with duplicates, is herewith transmitted to you, upon

each of the persons to whom it is directed, and leave with

or tender to each such person a duplicate summons and one

of the copies of (or concise statements presented with) the

plaint, which accompany the summons. And certify to this

Court on or before the . day of ..20,

in what manner you have executed this precept, returning

the summons attached to your certificate as an exhibit.

..Signature

Plaintiff/Defendant/Petitioner/ Respondent/

Party Seeking to be added/ substituted.;

17Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 2024

By order of Court,

(Signed) .,

Registrar.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

The..day of 20....

16. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Civil Procedure Code (Amendment)Act, No. 43 of 202418

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTINGEnglish Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.