eng ee

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ANTIQUITIES (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 24 OF 1998

[Certified on 21st May, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of May 22, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs, 9.00 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

[Certified on 21st May, 1998}
L.D.—O. 29/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ANTIQUITIES ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Antiquities (Amendment)
Act, No. 24 of 1998.

2. The long title to the Antiquities Ordinance (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby repealed
and the following long title substituted therefor :—

“An Ordinance to provide for the better preservation
of the antiquities of Sri Lanka, and of sites and buildings
of historical or archaeological importance in
Sri Lanka.”,

3. Section 2 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
in subsection (3) thereof, by the substitution for the words
“or lake, shall” of the words “or lake or within the territorial
sea of Sri Lanka, shall”.

4, The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 15 and shall have effect as sections
15a, 15B, 15¢ AND 15D respectively of the principal
enactment :—

“OFFENCES RELATING TO THEFT AND DISTRUCTION OF

ANTIQUITIES
Offences 15a. Any person who commits theft within
heres tothe meaning of section 366 of the Penal Code, in
antiqnities respect of antiquity, in the possession of any other

person shall be guilty of an offence under this
Ordinance and shall on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not

_exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not
less than two years and not more than five years
or to both such fine and imprisonment.

2D 047391—8,550 (04/98)

Short title.

Replacement of
jong title to
Chapter 188.

Amendment of
section 2 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
sections 15a, 15s
15c

and 15p in the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 16 of the
principal
enactment.

2 Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

Penalty for
distruction
&c. of
antiquity.

‘Offences

under this
Ordinance
to be
non-bailable.

Evidence.

15p. Any person who wilfully destroys,
injures, defaces or tampers with any antiquity or
wilfully damages any part of it, shall be guilty of
an offence under this Ordinance and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate
be liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not less than two years and not more
than five years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.

15c. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of
1979 or any other written law, no person charged
with, or accused of an offence under this
Ordinance shal! be released on bail.

15p. Ina prosecution for an offence under this
Ordinance, a certificate purporting to be signed
by the Director-General and to the effect that the
object described therein is an antiquity, shall be
admissible in evidence without further proof, and
shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated
therein.”

5. Section 16 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for the
words “which dates or is believed to date from a period
prior to the Ist day of January, 1850, shall”, of the
words “which has existed or is believed to have existed
for a period of not less than hundred years, shall,” ;

(2) in the marginal note to that section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “dating to period prior to
1850”, of the words “in existence not less than hundred

years

‘Ad

6. Section 31 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “and shall
be liable” to the end of that section, of the words “and shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998 © 3

law, be liable on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not less than
two years and not exceeding five years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.”.

7. Section 32 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for al! the words from “and shall
be liable” to the end of that section, of the words “and shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law, be liable on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to
imprisonment of either description for a term not less than
two years and not exceeding five years or to both such fine
and imprisonment.”.

8. The following new Part is hereby inserted immediately

after Part V and shall have effect as Part VA of the principal
enactment :—
“PART Va
ADVISORY COMMITTEE

Establishment 39a. (1) The Minister may, by Order

or Advisory published in the Gazette, establish an
Archaeological Advisory Committee (hereinafter
referred to as “the Advisory Committee”).

(2) It shall be the function of such Advisory
Committee to advise the Director-General of
Archaeology—

(a) on any or all of the matters the Minister
considers necessary for the purpose of
carrrying out or giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this
Ordinance ; and

(6) where advice is sought by him on matters
connected to the performance of his duties
under this Ordinance..

Amendment of
section 32 of the
principal
enactment.

Insertion of new
Part VA in the
principal
enactment.


Replacement of
heading appearing
immediately after
Part V1 of the
principal
enactment.

4

Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

(3) The Minister may appoint to such
Advisory Committee such number of members
and ‘on such terms and conditions as he may
determine.

(4) The Advisory Committee shall have the
power to fix and regulate its own procedure
including the power to determine the number of
members necessary to form a quorum for its
meetings. Every member of the Advisory
Committee shall hold office for two years unless
he earlier resigns, dies or is removed from office.

(5) A member of the Advisory Committee
may resign from office by letter addressed to the
Minister.

(6) A member vacating his office by
resignation or by expiration of his term of office
shali be eligible for reappointment,

(7) Where a member of the Advisory
Committee becomes by reason of illness or other
infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the
Minister may appoint another person to act in his
place.

(8) The Minister may, if he considers it
expedient so to do, remove from office, by Order
published in the Gazette, any member of the
Advisory Committee.”.

9. The heading appearing in Part VI immediately before
section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed and
the following substituted therefor :—


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998 = §

“Powers AND Duties of Drrecror-GENERAL OF

Ad

ARCHAEOLOGY’

10. Section 40 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-—

“Powersof 40. The Director-General of Archaeology is
Director- ,

of hereby empowered—
Archaeology.

(a) to formulate a national archaeological
policy and to co-ordinate and implement
such policy after it is approved by the
Government ;

(b) to inventorise the archaeological heritage
of Sri-Lanka ;

(c) to "protect and maintain such
archaeological heritage ;

(d) to conduct research into every aspect of
the archaeological heritage of Sri Lanka
and specially, into the prehistoric,
protohistoric, early historic, middle
historic and late historic periods and into
general or specific theory, method and
practice ;

(e) to enhance public awareness of the
archacological heritage of Sri Lanka
through appropriate displays of
antiquities, publications and by other
means ;

(f) to levy an entrance fee where it is
considered necessary at selected sites or
visitor centers ;

Replacement of
section 40 of the
principal
enactment.


Replacement of
section 43 of the
principal
enactment.

6 ‘Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

- (g) to conduct archaeological impact
assessment of areas that may be affected
by development, industrial or other
projects proposed by:the Government or
any person and.implement any mitigatory
measures that may be required.”.

‘11. Section 43 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :-—

\"Aubosajon, 43, (1) The Director-General of Archaeology

a may, generally or specially authorize the exercise,
Agents and Performance or discharge of any of his powers,
other duties or functions under this Ordinance—
officers tq

exercise’ — ae

powers of (a) by the Goverhment Agent or the District
eaector Secretary of a district or Divisional
‘Archaeology. | -—=«Seeretary of-any division within that

district, or division respectively ;

(6) by any officer of the Archaeological
Department ; or

can (>) by any person possessed of special
_" "=" expertise and resources in or for, the
exploration, excavation, conservation,
restoration or maintenance of monuments
and antiquities, in such areas and on such
_ terms and conditions as may be specified

in such authorization :

~
Provided that the Director-General of

Archaeology may at any time revoke or withdraw

oj :.- such authorization if in-his view the purpose and

objectives thereof.are not being satisfactorily
served.


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998 7

(2) The. authorization shall be in writing
specifying, among other things, the objectives of
the authorization, the system of supervision by

‘the Director-General of Archaeology or his

nominees, the recording of procedures employed,
the reporting of progress, and the writing of
reports.”.

12. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 43 and shall have effect as sections
43a and 438 of the principal enactment :-—

“Impact
assessment
of proposed
development
projects.

43a. (1) Whenever any development or
industrial scheme or project is proposed by the
Government or other institution or person
entailing the use, encroachment or submergence
of any land falling within the inventory prepared
under section 40(b), or any land as may be

_ prescribed, such scheme. or project shal! not be
approved or permitted until after a report is

submitted by the Director-General of
Archaeology, as to the effects the implementation
of such scheme, or project may have upon such
land or any antiquities within it.

(2) The Director-General of Archaeology shall
cause an impact assessment survey to be
undertaken at the expense-of the sponsors of such
project or scheme to assess the consequences

_ thereof upon the antiquarian, historical or

archaeological aspects or value of the land in
question or on any antiquities upon it and shall,
within such period of time as may be agreed on
(in any event not later than six weeks from deposit

of the cost of such survey with the Director-
_ General of Archaeology), submit to the Minister,

his written report recommending, objecting to,
or recommending subject to such conditions or
alterations as may be specified in the report, the
proposed project, or scheme, together with an
estimate of any such additional costs as may be

Insertion of new
sections 434 and
43p in the
principal
enactment.



Amendment of
section 44 of the
principal
enactment.

8 Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

"necessary for the taking of any measures to
protect, preserve, excavate, document and
publish, and if necessary relocate, any antiquities
upon such land at the expense of the project's
sponsors.

(3) The sponsors of every such scheme or
project as is referred to in this section shall provide
for and set apart, a sum not exceeding one per
cent of its total cost for the purposes and
objectives referred to in this section.

(4) The provisions of this section shall have
effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary
in any other law.

Conditions 43. (1) Where approval or permission has

to be ied been granted for any scheme or project subject to
-— any condition or alteration, it shall be the duty of

the sponsors to comply with it. Failure to comply
with any condition or alteration shall be an offence
under this Ordinance and the Director-General
of Archaeology may cause such scheme or project
to be stopped forthwith.

(2) Where a scheme or project has been so
stopped, work on such scheme or project shall
not be commenced until the condition or
alteration subject to which the approval or
permission was granted is adequately complied
with by the sponsors and a written permission in
that behalf is obtained from the Director-General
of Archaeology.”.

13. Section 44 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “not exceeding
one hundred rupees or to imprisonment of either description
for a term not excezding three months”, of the words “not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding five years”.


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998 9

14. Section 46 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor:—

“Reward 46. (1) There shall be established under the

Fund. control and administration of the Director-
General of Archaeology a fund known as the
“Antiquities Reward Fund” (hereinafter referred
to as the “Fund”) for the purpose of rewarding
informants and enforcement officers contributing,
to the recovery of illegally appropriated
antiquities or to the protection of sites, and
antiquities. ~

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund:—

(a) one half of all fines recovered by any court
in respect of convictions for offences
under this Ordinance;

(b) ‘donations to the Fund from individuals,
societies or institutions;

(c) any other prescribed payment.

(3) The Auditor General shall annually audit
the Fund.”.

~ 15, Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) thereof as follows:—

(a) by the relettering of paragraph (/) of that subsection
as paragraph (J) thereof ;

(b) by the deletion of the word “and” appearing at_the
end of paragraph (i) ; and ‘

(c) by the insertion of the following paragraphs
immediately after paragraph (?) of that subsection :—

“q) the manner in which the payment of rewards from
the Fund shall be determined;

(k) the administration of the Fund; and”.

Replacement of
section 46 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 47 of the
principal
enactment.


10 = Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998

Amendment of 16. Section 48 of the principal enactment is hereby
section 48 ofthe amended as follows:-—

principal : .

enactment.

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definition of
the word “antiquity” of the following definition:—

“Archaeological heritage” means that part of the
material heritage of mankind in respect of
which archaeological methods provide primary
information and includes all vestiges of human
existence and places relating to all
manifestations of human activity, abandoned
structures and remains of all kinds (including
subterranean and underwater sites), together
with all the portable cultural material associated
with them;”;

(2) by the repeal of the definition of the word “monument”
and the substitution therefor of the following:—

“monument” means any building, or other structure
or erection, or any tomb, tumulus or other place
of interment, or any other immovable property
of a like nature or any part or remains of the
same or any other site where the material
remains of historic or prehistoric human
settlement or activity may be found; and
includes the site of any monument and such
portion of land adjoining such site as may be
required for fencing-or covering in or otherwise
preserving any monument;”,

(3) by the addition immediately after the definition of the
word “regulation” of the following definition:—

“territorial sea” means the area declared to be the
territorial waters of Sri Lanka by Proclamation
made under the Maritime Zones Law, No. 22 of
1976. .


Antiquities (Amendment) Act, No. 24 of 1998 11

17. Wherever, in any provisions of the principal
enactment, the words “Archaeological Commissioner” occurs,
there shall be substituted the words “Director-General of
Archaeology”:

18. Wherever, in any provision of any written law (other
than the principal enactment) or of any notice, certificate,
communication, form or other document issued,. made,
required or otherwise, by or under such written law, the words
“Archaeological Commissioner” to denote the Archaeological
Commissioner appointed under the principal enactment prior
to the commencement of this Act occurs, there shall be
substituted therefor, the words “Director-General of
Archaeology”.

19. Every contract, agreement or other document or
instrument whatsoever made, issued or executed prior to the
date of commencement of this Act by or in favour of the
Archaeological Commissioner appointed under the principal
enactment in his capacity as such, shall be deemed, on and
after that date, to be and to have been made, issued, or
executed, by or in favour of the Director-General of
Archaeology.

20. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

General
amendment of the
provisions of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
other written law.

Savings for
contracts.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Lr edienneteshsyerahntyegpg—vereererenst:

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1, 180(Foreign),

payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TraNsworKs House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomeo 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
