PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BUDDHASRAVAKA BHIKKU UNIVERSITY(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 15 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 11th July, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.12.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 13, 2012

1 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

2PL 005804 4,090 (06/2012)

Short title.

[ Certified on 11th July, 2012]

AN ACT TO AMEND THE BUDDHASRAVAKA BHIKKU UNIVERSITY ACT,NO. 26 OF 1996

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Buddhasravaka BhikkuUniversity (Amendement) Act, No. 15 of 2012.

2.(1) In the Buddhasravaka Bhikku University Act, No.26 of 1996 (hereinafter referred to as the "principalenactment") and in any other written law, there shall besubstituted for the words " Buddhasravaka BhikkuUniversity" the words "Bhikku University of Sri Lanka".

(2) Every reference to the "Buddhasravaka BhikkuUniversity" in any regulation, rule, notice, notification,contract, communication or other document shall be readand construed as a reference respctively, to the "BhikkuUniversity of Sri Lanka".

3.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the deletion of the word "and" inparagraph (q);

(2) by the re-numbering of paragraph (r) asparagraph (t); and

(3) by the addition immediately after paragraph (q)thereof, of the following new paragraphs:

"(r) to conduct post-graduate courses for clergystudents which are consistent with theobjects of the University;

Generalamendment to theBuddhasravakaBhikku UniversityAct, No. 26 of1996.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

L.D.O. 52/2006.

2 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

(s)to estabish local and foreign affiliated institutionsas required by the University, and".

4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following:

"(2) In the event of any Maha Nayaka Thera or ChiefMaha Nayaka Thera of any Nikaya referred to in subsection(1) declining to accept the appointment as MahaMahopadyaya of the University the Minister in consultationwith such Maha Nayaka Thera or Uththarithara Sabhawa, asthe case may be, may make recommendation to the Presidentto appoint another suitable Nayaka Thera of such Nikaya tobe the Maha Mahopadyaya of the University.".

5. Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after paraghaph (ii)thereof, of the following new paragraph:

"(iia) Dean of each Faculty;"

6.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in subsection (1) of that section

(a) in paragraph (a) thereof, by the substitutionfor the word "Minister" of the word"President";

(b) in paragraph (b) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words "post-graduate degree inBuddhist Studies from a recognizedUniversity." of the words "post-graduatedegree in Buddhist Studies or in any othersubject connected thereto from a recognized,University on a research done within aperiod of not less than two years and havingten years experience in the field of teaching.

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

3 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

In addition he shall be required to possess agood knowledge of oriental languages.";

(2) in subsection (2) of that section

(a) in paragraph (iii) thereof, by thesubstitution for the word "Minister," of thewords "President through the Minister,";

(b) in paragraph (iv) thereof by thesubstitution for the word "Minister" of theword "President";

(c) by the addition immediately afterparagraph (v) thereof, of the following newparagraph:

(vi)Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in any other provision ofthis Act, the term of office of theMahopadyaya of the University,who last held office on the dayimmediately preceding the date ofcoming into operation of thissection, shall continue for a furtherperiod of three years from the dateof coming into operation of thissection.;

(3) by the repeal of subsections (3) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the following:

"(3) (a) If there is sufficient proof that theMahopadyaya has acted in a manner detrimentalto the interests of the University, the Presidentshall, on a resolution passed by not less thantwo-thirds of the total membership of theUththaraithara Sabhawa at a special meetingconvened for the purpose, require the Ministerto take necessary steps to ensure the removal ofthe Mahopadyaya from office.

(b) The Mahopadyaya shall be the AccountingOfficer of the University, who shall comply with

4 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

any determination or regulation or directive ofthe Council of the University relating to thecontrol of finances and properties of theUniversity. The Mahopadyaya shall exercise,perform and discharge such powers, duties andfunctions as may be conferred on him by thisAct or by any regulation or rule made underthis Act.";

(4) (a) by the deletion of the first paragraph of subsection(4) of that section;

(b)by the renumbering of the second paragraph ofsubsection (4) of that section as subsection (4)thereof.

7.Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows:

(1) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section,and the substitution therefor, of the following:

"(1) The first Registrar of the Universityshall be appointed by the Minister for a periodof three years. The Council shall on therecommendation of a selecting committee,appoint every subsequent Registrar for aperiod of five years, which may be renewed.Where an officer in the public service shall beappointed as the Registrar of the Universitythe concurrence of the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration and therelevant officer shall be obtained.";

(2)by the repeal of subsection (3) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of thefollowing:

"(3) The Registrar shall be theAssistant Accounting Officer of theUniversity.";

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

5 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

(3)by the addition immediately aftersubsection (5) of that section of thefollowing new subsection:

"(6) The Registrar shall be responsibleto the Council for the safe custody of therecords and properties of the University.".:

8.Section 9 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) by the substitution for the words"finances of the University and maintenance of its accounts"of the words "Finances of the University under the supervisionof the Registrar and for the maintenance of its accounts".

9.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words "the Senate." ofthe words "the Senate;";

(2)by the addition immediately after paragraph (iii)thereof, of the following new paragraph:

"(iv) a Board of the Faculty or Boards of theFaculty.".

10.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of subsection (1) of that sectionand the substitution therefor, of the following:

" (1) The Council of the University(hereinafter referred to as the "Council") shallbe the executive and governing body of theUniversity and shall consist of the following:

(a)ex-officio members

Amendmentof section 9of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 11of theprincipalenactment.

Amendmentof section 14of theprincipalenactment.

6 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

(i) the Mahopadyaya;

(ii) the Dean of each Faculty;

(iii) two members of the academic staff

of the University elected from and

among the members of the Senate;

(iv) the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofBuddha Sasana, or his nominee.

(v) the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofHigher Education, or his nomine; and

(vi) the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofFinance or his nominee.

(b)appointed members appointed by theMinister

(i) five learned Bhikkus who haverendered distinguished service to theBuddha Sasana; and

(ii) three lay Buddhists who haverendered distinguished service to theBuddha Sasana, and who haveexperience in the fields of Financ,Law and Administration."; and

(2) by the addition immediately after subsection(9) thereof, of the following new subsection:

"(10)Notwithstanding anything in this Act,

7 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

the appointed members of the Councilwho held office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of coming intooperation of this section, shall continueto hold such office for the unexpiredperiod from the date of coming intooperation of this section.".

11.Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) as follows:

(a) by the repeal of parapraph (xii) of that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

"(xii)to appoint a Bhikku Students Councilwhich shall include representatives ofthe Bhikku Students for the promotionof the general well-being of the BhikkuStudents of the University. Thecomposition, powers, duties andfunction of such Council shall beprescribed by Ordinance;";

(b) by the addition immediately after paragraph(xiv) of that subsection, of the following newparagraphs:

"(xv)to formulate the scheme ofrecruitment and appointingprocedure to be applied to the staff ofthe University to be on par with theschemes of recruitment andappointing procedures adopted inother Universities established underthe Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,

Amendmentof section 15of theprincipalenactment.

8 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

and to determine, from time to time,the various grades of the staff and thecadres of each grade;

(xvi)to determine, from time to time, theremuneration to be paid to variousgrades of the staff of the Universityand other benefits to be granted tosuch staff on the basis of the overallsalaries and remuneration principlesof other Universities establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of1978 and in consultation with theMinister in charged of the subject ofFinance;";

(c)by the re-numbering of paragraphs (xv) and (xvi) as paragraphs (xvii) and (xviii).

12.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following subsection:

"(2) The Senate of the University shall consist ofthe following persons:

(i) Mahopadyaya;

(ii) the Dean of each Faculty of the University;

(iii) the Head of each Department of Study;

(vi) the Librarian of the University;

(v) the every permanent Professor of theUniversity;

Amendment ofsection 16 ofthe principalenactment.

9 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

(vi) one person from the teachers other than thosereferred to above elected by the permanentteachers of each Faculty from and among theirnumber;

(vii) three teachers appointed by the Council of theUniversity from among male Professors,Associate Professors and Senior Lecturers of theDepartments of Buddhists Studies or CulturalStudies of other Universities in Sri Lanka;

(viii) three persons appointed by the Council of theUniversity from among learned anddistinguished laymen or members of the clergywho are not members of the staff of anyUniversity.";

(2) by the insertion immediately after subsection (2)thereof of the following new subsections:

"(2A) Every elected or appointed member shallhold office for a period of three years from the dateof his election or appointment, as the case may be:

Provided however, any member elected orappointed vacates office on grounds of retirement,resignation or being absent himself from threeconsecutive meetings of the Senate or otherwise,another member shall be elected or appointed, asthe case may be, in place of such member incompliance with the provisions of paragraphs (vi),(vii) and (viii) of subsection (2). Further, suchmember shall hold office for the unexpired term ofoffice of his predecessor unless he vacates officeearlier.

(2B) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, theappointed members, holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of coming intooperation of this section, shall cease to hold suchoffice on the date of coming into operation of thissection:

10 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

Provided however, that the appointed memberswho cease to hold such office shall be eligible forreappointment.".

13.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the addition in paragraph (vi) thereofimmediately after the word "Council;" of thewords "after considering the reports from theFaculty concerned;".

(b)in item (c) of paragraph (vii) thereof, by thesubstitution for the words "Committee," of theword "Committee;".

(c)by the addition immediately after sub paragraph(c) in paragraph (vii) thereof of the following:

"(d) to set up a Research and PublicationCommittee,".

(2) by the addition immediately after subsection (1)thereof of the following new subsection:

"(1A) The Senate may with the approval of theMinister, establish, from time to time, the Faculty orDepartment of Studies, as the Senate deems necessary,for the development of teaching, research andextension programmes of the University to realizethe objects of the University.".

14.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after secftion 18 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 18A, 18B, 18C and 18D of thatenactment:

18A. Every Faculty of the Universityshall have a Board of the Faculty

Insertion of newsections 18A,18B, 18C and18D of theprincipalenactment.

"The Board ofeach Faculty.

Amendment ofsection 17 ofthe principalenactment.

11 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

(hereinafter referred to as the "Board")consisting of the following:

(a)the Dean of the Faculty concerned;

(b)all Permanent Professors, AssociateProfessors, Senior Lecturers andPermanent Lecturers of theDepartments of Studies whichconstitute the Faculty;

(c)two persons other than those referredto in paragraphs (b) of this sectionelected by the permanent academicstaff of the Faculty from and amongtheir numbers;

(d)two students elected by the studentsof the Faculty from and among theirnumbers; and

(e) three persons appointed by the Boardwho excel in the fields of studyrelevant to the Faculty and are notmembers of the staff of the University.

18B. (1) Subject to the provisions of thisAct, the Board shall exercise, perform anddischarge the powers, duties andfunctions:

(a) to consider and report back any matterreferred to the Faculty by the Senate;

(b) to regulate subject to the control ofthe Senate, all matters pertaining tothe teaching, examinations andresearch activities of the Departmentsof Study of the Faculty;

(c) to appoint committees which mayinclude non-members of the Faculty

Powers, duties andfunctions of theBoard.

12 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

to consider and report any specialsubject or subjects;

(d) to submit to the Senaterecommendations and reports on studycourses and examinations of theFaculty; and

(e) to recommend to the Senate thesuitable persons to be appointed asinvigilators.

(2) Each Faculty shall have a Dean andhe shall be a full time officer of theUniversity and shall be the academic andadministrative head of the Faculty. TheBoard of each Faculty shall elect the Deanfrom among the Heads of Departments ofStudies, which constitute the Faculty andhe shall cease to be the Head of theDepatrment of Studies concerned upon hiselection as the Dean:

Provided that the first Dean to beappointed on the date of commencementof this Act shall be appointed by theCouncil on the recommendation of theMahophadyaya.

(3)(a) The Dean shall preside at everymeeting of the Board of theFaculty ;

(b)The members elected underparagraph (d) of section 18Ashall be excluded from thebusiness of any meeting of theBoard convened for matterspertaining to the election of aDean and to decisionsconcerning examinations and

13 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

matters incidental thereto andsuch meeting shall be deemed tobe a duly convened validmeeting irrespective of suchexclusion.

(4) The Dean, shall hold office for aperiod of three years from the date of hiselection and shall be eligible for re-electionunless removed earlier from office.

(5) Where the Dean is temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his officeon account of ill health, absent on leave orany other cause for a period of not morethan three months, the Mahopadyaya shallappoint another to act in the place of theDean, during such period as the Head of aDepartment of Study of that Faculty.

(6) Every member elected underparagraph (d) of section 18A shall holdoffice for a period of one academic yearfrom the date of his election and all otherelected members shall hold office for aperiod of three years from the date ofelection. Every such member shall beelegible for re-election.

18C. (1) The Head of a Department ofStudy shall be a Professor, Senior Lectureror a Permanent Lecturer appointed by theCouncil on the recommendation of theMahopadyaya:

Provided however, that where a Head ofany Department of Study is not appointedby the Council, the Mahopadyaya mayappoint a Professor, an Associate Professor,Senior Lecturer or Permanent Lecturer to

The Head of aDepartment ofStudy.

14 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

act as the Head of a Department of Study ofthat Faculty for a period of one month fromthe date of such appointment.

(2) The Head of a Department of Study,subject to the provisions of any appropriateinstrument, shall hold office for a period ofthree years from the date of his appointmentand shall be eligible for re-appointmentunless removed from office.

(3) Where the Head of a Department ofStudy is temporarily unable to perform theduties of his office on account of ill health,absent on leave or any other cause for aperiod not more than three months, theMahopadyaya shall appoint anotherProfessor, Associate Professor, SeniorLecturer or a Permanent Lecturer to theDepartment of Study concerned to act inthat post during such period:

Provided however, that where a Head ofany Department of Study is unable toperform the duties of his office on accountof retirement, resignation or any othercause, for a period more than three months,the post of Head of the Department ofStudy concerned shall be deemed vacantand a new Head Department of Study shallbe appointed to such post in terms ofsubsection (1).

18D. The Governing Council may, withthe apporval of the Minister, establish,from time to time, any Faculty orDepartment of Study as the GoverningCouncil thinks necessary for thedevelopment of teaching, research andpromotional programmes in order to fulfullthe objects of the University.".

Establishment ofFaculties andDepartments ofStudy.

15 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

Sinhala textto prevail incase of anyinconsistancy.

15. Section 23 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) by the addition immediately atthe end of that subsection of the words "If upon suchappointment, the teacher so appointed disrobes, he shall ceaseto hold such office.".

16. Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words "fifty fifth year"of the words "fifty-seventh year.".

17. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 57 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 57A of that enactment:

57A. The Council, Senate and any otherbody established under this Act, in theexercise, performance and discharge oftheir respective powers, duties andfunctions under this Act, shall comply withsuch rules and regulations as may from timeto time be made by the University GrantsCommission.".

18. Section 68 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1) by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression "the Council" of the followingdefinition:

"University Grants Commission" means theUniversity Grants Commission established underthe Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978;";

(2)in the definition of "teacher", by the substitutionfor the words "a teacher; and" of the words "ateacher.";";

(3)in the definition of "the Council", by thesubstitution for the words "the University." ofthe words "the University; and".

19. In the event of any inconsistancy between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Amendmentof section 68of theprincipalenactment.

"Council, Senateand any otherbody to complywith rules andregulations of theUniversity GrantsCommission.

Amendmentof section 23of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 26 ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 57A tothe principalenactment.

16 Buddhasravaka Bhikku University (Amendment)Act, No 15 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.