PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TURNOVER TAX (AMENDMENT) —
ACT, No. 8 OF 1997

[Certified on 18th June, 1997]

‘Printed on the Order of Government

Published asa Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of June 19, 1997 :

PRINTED AT TILE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SR] LANKA
TO BE PURCIIASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price: Rs.5.60 9 © 2a! Hey RRM TS ; Postage : Rs. 4.10


‘Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No.8 of 1997

[Certified on 18th jane, ee
L.D.—O. 74/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE TURNOVER TAX Act, No. 69 oF 1981.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Turnover Tax
(Amendment) Act, No.8 of 1997,

2. Scction 2 of the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981
(hereinafter referred toas the “principal enacument”), is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from, “shall be
charged for the period” to ‘a tax (hereinafter referred to as the
“turnover tax”)’, of the following words and figures :—

‘shall be charged—

(a) for the period November 13, 1981 to Bécember 31;

1981 and for every quarter commencing on or after
Junuary 1, 1982 but prior to the date on which the
Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 comes
into operation, from every person who—

(i) carrics on any business in Sri Lanka ; or

(ii) renders services outside Sri Lanka for which
payment is made from Sri Lanka ; and

(b

al

for every quarter commencing on or after the date on
which the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of
1996 comes into opcration, from every person who
carrics on the business of— ©

__ (i) afinancicr, moncy lender or pawn-broker ; or

Shon tite. |

Amendment
of section 2 of
Turnover Taz
Act, No. 69 of
1981.

~ (ii) abank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30

of 1988 ; or
(iii) owner of a ship or a charterer of a ship ; or

(iv) buying and selling any article, in any area

.. where there is no statute in force imposing ‘

turnover tax on such sales,
-. @ lax (hereinafter referred toas the “turnover tax”),’
1—D043284—1 1,530 (97/04)


2 Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 1997

Amendment 3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby
of section Sof amended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the

the principal ey . :
enactment, substitution, of the following subsection therefor :—

“(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the turnover—

(i) in relation to any business shall, not include any
amount received or receivable by the sale of
Capital assets ;

(ii) arising, in the case of a financier or bank which
functions as a primary dealer in treasury bills,
treasury bonds or government securities, pursuant
to such financier or bank being appointed as such
by the Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka, under the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance
or the Registered Stock and Securities Ordinance,
from dealing in any such bill, bond or security,
shall be the interest or discount received or
receivable in respect of such bill, bond or security,
after deducting therefrom the interest paid or the
discount allowed in relation to any repurchase
transaction in respect of such bill, bond or

- security .”. :

Amendment 4. Section 48a of the principal enactment is hereby
of section 48a amended, by the addition, at the end of that section, of the

of the following subsections :—
principal
enactment. ‘(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of

this section, where there remains any residue of the
turnover tax which is deductible in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (1), after its deduction from the
turnover tax payable by any person in respect of the
turnover referred to in subsection (1), for each of the
quarters preceding the last quarter, such residue shall be

_ deducted, to the extent it can be so deducted, from the
turnover tax payable by that person, in respect of the
turnover referred to in subsection (1) for the last quarter,
and any balance of the residue after such deduction
shall, subject to the provisions of section 49, be refunded
after the expiry of six months reckoned from the date on
which the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
comes into operation.


Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 1997 3

For the purposes of this subsection, “last quarter”
means the quarter ending on the day immediately
preceding the date on which the Goods and Services
Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 comes into operation.

(4) The provisions of subsection (3) shall not apply
to any business referred to in paragraph (5) of
section 2.’.

5. Section 488 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended by the addition, at the end of that section, of the ene 488
following subsections :— | the

principal

(3) Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of ““"""™"

this section, where there remains any residue of the
turnover tax which is deductible in accordance with the
provisions of subsection (1), after its deduction from the
turnover tax payable by any person in respect of the
turnover referred to in subsection (1), for each of the
quarters preceding the last quarter, such residue shall be
deducted, to the extent it can be so deducted, from the
turnover tax payable by that person, in respect of the
turnover referred to in subscction (1) for the last quarter,
and any balance of the residue after such deduction
shall, subject to the provisions of section 49, be refunded
after the expiry of six months reckoned from the date on
which the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996
comes into operation.

For the purposes of this subsection, “last quarter”
means the quarter ending on the day immediately
preceding the date on which the Goods and Services
Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996 comes into operation.

(4) The provisions of subsection (3) shall not
apply to any business referred to in paragraph (b) of
section 2.’.

6. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended in the proviso to subsection (4A) of that section, of section 49
by the substitution, for all the words from, “by the the

Commissioner General if—”, to the end of that proviso. of the Principal
PFOVISO, OF the enactment.


‘Amendment

4 Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 1997

words, “by the Commissioner General, if such supply is
covered by a letter of credit opened in a bank in Sri Lanka, or
such other documentary evidence, as is required by the
Commissioner-General to satisfy himself that the exports
relating to such supply were in fact made, is adduced.”.

7. Section 50 of the principal enactment is hereby

of section 50 amended as follows :-—

of the
principal
enactment.

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, for the words, “Every
person who makes any payment in pursuance
of a contract”, of the words and figures,
“Every person who, on or before the date on
which the Goods and Services Tax Act, No. 34
of 1996 comes into operation, makes any
payment in pursuance of a contract” ;

(b) by the repeal of the proviso to that subsection
and the substitution therefor, of the following
proviso :—

‘Provided that— |

(i) where the total consideration payable
for the performance of such contract, not
being any contract referred to in
paragraph (vi) of the definition of
“contract” in subsection (4), or

(ii) where the amount resulting from the
division of the gross rent (inclusive of
premium) payable to a company in
pursuance of a contract referred to in
paragraph (vi) of subsection (4), by the
number of completed quarters comprised
in the period of tenancy covered by such
contract,

~ does not exceed one hundred thousand rupees,
no such deduction shall be made.’ ;


Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 1997 5

(2) in subsection (4) of that section—

(i) by the substitution, in paragraph (iv), for the
words “not including a contract of
employment ; or”, of the words “not including

a contract of employment ;” ;

(ii) by the substitution, in paragraph (v), for the
words “any contract for the supply of
cinematograph films by a producer”, of the
words “any contract for the supply of
cinematograph films by a producer ;or”; and

(iii) by the addition, at the end of that subsection, of
the following paragraph :—

“(vi) any contract in respect of the letting, by
any company, of any commercial
premises.”.

8. Every article—

(a) imported into Sri Lanka on or after May 14, 1992 hut
prior to November 9, 1995 by acompany with which
the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka has entered into
an agreement, under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 ; and

(b) which is not exempt from the payment of turnover
tax by virtue of the Orders made under section 8 of
the principal enactment and published in Gazette No.
714/13 of May 14, 1992 and Gazette No. 751/20 of
January 29, 1993,

shall be deemed to have been, and to be, exempt from any
turnover tax payable under the principal enactment with effect
from May 14, 1992.

9. Every person other than any unit trust or any investment
company engaged in the business of buying and selling shares
shall, so far as his turnover relates to the sale of shares, be
exempt from turnover tax, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Order made under section 7 of the principal

enactment and published in Gazette Extraordinary No. 75 1/20
of January 29,1993.

Special
provision
relating to
certain articles
imported by
companies
with which the
Board of
Investment of
Sri Lanka has
entered into
agreements.

Special
provision
relating to
Share trading.


6 Turnover Tax (Amendment) Act, No. 8 of 1997

Retrospective 10. The provisions of section 9 shall, for all purposes, be
effect. deemed to have come into force on January 29, 1993.

Sinhala text to 11. Intheevent of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

ot incasé and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
c¢]
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,1 80(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GoveERNMENT PUBLICATIONS Bureau, No. 32, TRANSWORKS House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect,of the year following.
