PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
Ist Session 1956-57

Automobile Association of Ceylon
(Incorporation) Act, No. 19
of 1957

Date of Assent: March 28, 1957

Printed on the Orders of Government

s

Printed at the GovERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Automobile Association of Ceylon (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1957

L. D.—O. 33/56.

An Act TO INCORPORATE THE AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION
or CEYLON.

[Date of Assent: March 28, 1957]

WHEREAS it is desirable that the Automobile
Association of Ceylon should be incorporated :

Be it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Automobile Asso-
ciation of Ceylon (Incorporation) Act, No. 19 of
1957.

2. The persons who, at the time of the coming into
operation of this Act, are members of the Automobile.
Association of Ceylon (hereinafter referred to as “‘ the
Association ’’) and such other persons as are hereafter
enrolled as members of the Association shall be a body
corporate (hereinafter referred to as ‘“‘ the Corpora-

“tion ’’) with perpetual succession and a common seal »

and the name ‘‘ The Automobile Association of
Ceylon.”’. The Corporation may sue and be sued by
that name.

8. The objects of the Corporation shall be—

(2) to encourage and maintain an active interest
in motoring in Ceylon and to protect and
advance the legitimate interests of moto-
rists and aviators, the motor and aviation
industries and owners and users of all
forms of mechanically propelled vehicles
on land or water or-in the air and any
industry connected therewith,

(b) to assist in the enforcement of the laws
affecting highways and the users thereof.

(c) to secure equitable administration of matters
affecting the rights of motorists and the

enforcement of laws affecting all road
users, and

(¢) to watch all proposed legislation in any way
bearing upon the interests of motorists and
to secure, as far as practicable, that the
principles involved therein shall be equit-
able alike to motorists and the other
members of the public.

J. N. R7864-2825 (10/56)

Shoré title.

Incorporation
of the
Automobile
Association of
Ceylon.

Objects of the
Corporation.


Register of
members.

Rules of the
Corpnration,

Sums payable
by or to the
Association to
be paid by or
to the
Corporation.

Seal of the
Corporation.

The Corpora-
tion may
acquire, hold
and dispose
of property,
and borrow
money.

2 Automobile Association of Ceylon (Incorporation)

Act, No. 19 of 1957

4. The Committee administering the affairs of the
Corporation shall cause a register of members of the
Corporation to be kept. There shall be inscribed in
such register the name of every person who, at the date
of the coming into operation of this Act, is a member
of the Association and the name of every person who
is thereafter duly enrolled as a member of the
Association.

5. (1) The Corporation may from time to time, at
any general meeting of the members and by a majority
of votes, make such rules as it may deem expedient
for the management of the affairs of the Corporation
and the accomplishment of its objects.

(2) Any rule of the Corporation may be amended
or rescinded in like manner as a rule may be made’
under sub-section (1).

(3) The Articles of the Association in force when

‘this Act comes into operation shall be deemed to be

the rules of the Corporation made under this section
and may accordingly be amended or rescinded and be
replaced by new rules so made.

_ (4) The members of the Corporation shall be sub-’~

ject to the rules of the Corporation.

6. All debts and liabilities of the Association
existing at the time of the coming into operation of
this Act shall be paid and discharged by the Corpora-
tion, and all debts,-subscriptions, contributions, and
fines due or payable to the Association shall be paid
to the Corporation.

7. The seal of the Corporation. may be altered at
the .pleasure of the Corporation. It shall not be
affixed to any instrument whatsoever except by the
authority of a resolution of the Committee adminis-
tering the affairs of the Corporation and in the
presence of two members of that Committee, or one
member of that Committee and the Secretary of the
Corporation, who shall sign their names on the
instrument in token of their presence, and such sign-

ing shall be independent of the signing of any person
as a witness. .

8. The Corporation—

(a) may acquire and hold any movable or im-
movable property by right of purchase,
grant, gift, testamentary disposition or
otherwise,


Automobile Association of Ceylon (Incorporation) 3
Act, No. 19 of 1957

(6) shall hold any property subject to the rules of
the Corporation,

(c) may sell, mortgage, lease, exchange or other-
wise dispose of any of its properties, and

(Z) borrow money for the purposes of the
Corporation.

9. The income and property of the Corporation
shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the
objects of the Corporation and no portion thereof shall
be paid or transferred directly or indirectly by way
of dividend, bonus, or otherwise by way of profit, to
the members of the Corporation:

Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions
of this section shall prevent—

(a) the payment of reasonable and proper remune-
ration to any officer or servant of the
Corporation who is not a member of the
Committee administering the affairs of the
Corporation, or to any member of the
Corporation who is not a member of such
Committee for any services rendered to the
Corporation,

(b) the payment of interest at a rate not exceed-
ing five per centum per annum on money
lent, or reasonable and proper rent for
premises let, by any member to the Corpo-
ration, and

(c) the payment, with the consent of seventy-five
per centum of the members of such Com-
mittee, to any member of such Committee,
or to any company or firm of which any
member of such Committee is a member or
partner, for any work or services done or
rendered for or to the Corporation. |

10. If upon the dissolution of the Corporation
there remains, after the satisfaction of all its debts and
liabilities, any property (including money), such
property shall not be distributed among the members
of the Corporation, but shall be transferred to some
other institution or institutions which has or have
objects similar to the objects of the Corporation and
which is or are by rules or articles of association or
otherwise prohibited from distributing its or their
Income and property amongst its or their members to

Application of
income and
property of the
Corporation.

Disposal of
property of
the Corporation
left after the
payment of
debts upon
dissolution of
the Corporation.


Liability of
members of the
Corporation.

Saving of the
rights of the
Crown and
others,

4 Automobile Association of Ceylon (Incorporation)
Act, No. 19 of 1957

an extent at least as great as is imposed on the Cor-
poration by this Act. Such institution or institutions
shall be determined by the members of the Corpora-
tion at or before-the time of the dissolution of the
Corporation or, in default thereof, by a court within
the local limits of whose civil jurisdiction the whole
or any part of such property is held or situate. If
such property or any part thereof cannot be disposed
of in accordance with the provisions of this section,

such property. or part shall be applied to.some
charitable object. |

41. No member of the Corporation shall, for the
purpose of discharging the debts and liabilities of the

. Corporation, be liable to make any contribution

exceeding the amount of such annual subscriptions as
may be due from him to the Corporation and an
additional sum of not more than one rupee.

12. Nothing in this Act shall prejudice or affect -.
the rights of Her Majesty the Queen, Her Heirs and
successors, or of any body corporate or of any other _
persons except such as are mentioned in this Act and ~
those claiming from or under them.
