PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGISTRATION OF DEATHS(TEMPORARY PROVISIONS)(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 16 OF 2016

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 07th September, 2016]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 09, 2016

1Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

2PL 0100692,961 (07/2016)

[Certified on 07th of September, 2016]

L.D.O. 41/2015.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS (TEMPORARYPROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 19 OF 2010

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.This Act may be cited as the Registration of Deaths(Temporary Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016.

2.The long title to the Registration of Deaths(Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 19 of 2010 (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words AND FOR MATTERSCONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTALTHERETO. of the words TO PROVIDE FOR THEREGISTRATION OF PERSONS REPORTED MISSING ASA RESULT OF THE CONFLICT WHICH TOOK PLACE INTHE NORTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES OR ITSAFTERMATH OR POLITICAL UNREST OR CIVILDISTURBANCES OR ENFORCED DISAPPEARANCES OROF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES OR POLICEIDENTIFIED AS MISSING IN ACTION; AND FORMATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTALTHERETO..

3.The Preamble of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)for the words subversive activities or civilcommotion of the words subversive activities, oras a result of the conflict which took place in theNorthern and Eastern Provinces or its aftermath orpolitical unrest or civil disturbances or enforceddisappearances;;

Short Title.

Amendment ofthe long title ofAct, No. 19 of2010.

Amendment ofthe Preamble ofthe principalenactment.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20162

(2)for the words for the registration of such deaths:of the words for the registration of such deaths andsuch missing persons:.

4.(1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw there shall be substituted for the words Registration ofDeaths (Temporary Provisions) Act whenever those wordsoccur in the principal enactment or any other written law,the words Registration of Deaths and Missing Persons(Special Provisions) Act.

(2) Every reference to the Registration of Deaths(Temporary Provisions) Act in any notice, notification,contract, communication or other document shall be readand construed as a reference respectively to theRegistration of Deaths and Missing Persons (SpecialProvisions) Act.

5.Section 1 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (2) and (3) of thatsection and the substitution therefor of the followingsections:-

(2) Notwithstanding any extension of theperiod of operation of this Act, the Minister maynot less than one month prior to the expiration ofany period of operation of this Act, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, extend the period ofoperation of Parts I and IA of this Act:

Provided that,

(a)any period of operation may be extendedby the Minister upon review of such periodhaving considered the number ofapplications seeking relief under the saidParts; and

(b)any such extension shall not, in any oneinstance, be for more than a period of fiveyears.

Generalamendments tothe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 1 of theprincipalenactment.

3Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

(3) Notwithstanding the expiry of the period of operationof Parts I and IA, the provisions of Parts II and III shallcontinue to be in operation..

6.Section 2 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words, in the Form specified in the Schedule of thewords in the Form A specified in the Schedule.

7.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (4)of that section of the following new subsection:-

(5) Where a Certificate of Absence has beenissued under section 8E in respect of a missingperson a Certificate of Death shall not be issued inrelation to the same missing person until thecancellation of the Certificate of Absence..

8.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 7 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 7A of the principal enactment:-

7A. An applicant who is dissatisfied withthe decision of the Registrar-General madeunder section 7, may within one month ofthe notification of such refusal or issue, as thecase may be, make an application to theDistrict Court against such refusal or issue. TheDistrict Court may after review of the materialbefore it, either affirm the decision of theRegistrar-General, or direct the Registrar-General to issue a Certificate of Absence, ordisallow the report issued by the Registrar-General as the case may be..

9.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words substantially in the Form set out in theSchedule, of the words substantially in the Form A set outin the Schedule.

Amendment ofsection 2 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 7A in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

Ifdissatisfiedmay apply toDistrictCourt.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20164

10.The following new Part (sections 8A to 8L) is herebyinserted immediately after Part I and shall have effect as PartIA, of the principal enactment:-

PART IA

REGISTRATION OF PERSONS MISSING DUE TO THE CONFLICT IN THENORTHERN AND EASTERN PROVINCES, POLITICAL UNREST OR CIVIL

DISTURBANCES OR ENFORCED DISAPPEARANCES

8A. (1) Where any person is reported missingand has not been heard of for a periodexceeding one year by those who wouldnaturally have heard of him, had he beenpresent, and his disappearance is attributableto the conflict which took place in the Northernand Eastern Provinces or its aftermath orpolitical unrest or civil disturbances orenforced disappearances or is a member of thearmed forces or police who is identified asmissing in action (hereinafter referred to asmissing person), a relative of such personmay apply in the manner hereinafter provided,to register such person as missing and to haveissued to him, a Certificate of Absence inrespect of such person.

(2) Every application under this sectionshall be substantially in the Form B specifiedin the Schedule to this Act and shall beforwarded to the Registrar-General or theDistrict Registrar of the District in which suchmissing person was last resident or had hispermanent residence.

(3) The relative appointed by Form C of theSchedule (hereinafter referred to as therelative) shall administer the affairs of themissing person in accordance with theprovisions of this Act, taking into account thebest interest of the missing person and thesuccessors to the estate of such missing person.

Insertion of newPart IA in theprincipalenactment.

Criteriarequired toapply for aCertificate ofAbsence.

5Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

8B. Every application shall be supported byan Affidavit of the applicant which shall setout the grounds for his belief that the personwho is sought to be registered is missing. Theapplication shall be accompanied by a Reportof the Grama Niladhari of the Grama NiladhariDivision in which the person who is sought tobe registered as missing was last resident orhad his permanent residence, confirming thefact that such person has not been seen or heardof, for a period of over one year, together withany other evidence in support of suchapplication.

8C. Upon receipt of an application underthis Part, the Registrar-General or the DistrictRegistrar as the case may be, shall cause a copyof such application to be displayed for a periodof two weeks on the notice board kept at hisoffice and in the office of the relevant GramaNiladhari.

8D. Any person may, within one month ofthe date on which a copy of an application isdisplayed as provided for in section 8C, forwardto the Register-General or the District Registrar,as the case may be, his objections in writing tothe registration of such person as missing towhom such application relates or to theappointment of the relative and such objectionshall be supported by an Affidavit of theobjector and of any other person, setting outclearly the grounds for their objections andtender evidence in support of such objections.

8E. (1) On the expiry of the period of onemonth allowed to forward objections, theRegistrar-General or the District Registrar, asthe case may be, shall consider the applicationtogether with the evidence tendered in supportof the application and the objections if any.

Additionalmaterial to besupplied.

Display ofapplication.

Objection forregistration.

Registrationof MissingPersons.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20166

The Registrar-General or the District Registrarmay, question any person or call for anyevidence and after such inquiry as he mayconsider necessary, if satisfied as to the truthof the matter stated in the application, allowsuch application.

(2) Where the application was made to theRegistrar-General, he shall make an order onthe conclusion of such inquiry directing theDistrict Registrar to register the missing personin the Register of Missing Persons and to issuea Certificate of Absence under his hand to therelative under section 8H, unless the issue of aCertificate of Absence is disallowed for reasonsassigned.

(3) Where the application was made to theDistrict Registrar, on the conclusion of suchinquiry, he shall forward to the Registrar-General a Report under his hand setting outthe particulars concerning the missing person.The Registrar-General having considered thecontents of the Report shall make an orderdirecting the District Registrar to register themissing person in the Register of MissingPersons under section 8H and to issue aCertificate of Absence under his hand to therelative, who applied for the same unless forreasons assigned the Registrar-Generaldisallows the issue of a Certificate of Absence.

(4) The District Registrar shall accordinglyenter such particulars in the Register of MissingPersons and issue a Certificate of Absence tothe relative who applied for the same undersection 8A, in the Form C of the Schedule hereto.

(5) The District Registrar shall forthwithforward the duplicate of the relevant registrationentry for transmission to the Registrar-General.

7Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

The Registrar-General shall forthwith includethe necessary entries to the Register maintainedunder subsection (1) of section 8H subject toreview of the District Court under 8F, ifnecessary. The registration entry made by theRegistrar-General shall be final and conclusivefor the purposes of this Act.

8F. An applicant who is dissatisfied with thedecision of the Registrar-General refusing toissue a Certificate of Absence to him undersection 8E, or a person who has objected undersection 8D to the issue of a Certificate ofAbsence under this Part, may within one monthof the notification of such refusal or issue, asthe case may be, make application to theDistrict Court against such refusal or issue. TheDistrict Court may after review of the materialbefore it, either affirm or set aside the decisionof the Registrar-General, and may direct theRegistrar-General to issue a Certificate ofAbsence or allow the application of a relative,as the case may be.

8G. (1) Where a Commission appointedunder the Commissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter393) or a Special Presidential Commission ofInquiry established under the SpecialPresidential Commission Law, No. 7 of 1978or the Office on Missing Persons establishedunder the Office on Missing Persons(Establishment, Administration and Dischargeof Functions) Act, No. 14 of 2016 finds that aperson has disappeared or is missing, therelative of that person may, apply to theRegistrar-General or to the District Registrarin which that person was last residing or hadhis permanent residence, substantially in theForm B set out in the Schedule to this Act, tohave issued to him, a Certificate of Absence in

If dissatisfiedto apply toDistrictCourt.

Specialprocedurerelating toregistrationof MissingPersons inrespect ofwhom thereare findingsby aCommissionof Inquiry ora SpecialPresidentialCommissionof Inquiry orby the Officeon MissingPersons.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 20168

respect of that missing person. Every suchapplication shall be accompanied by anAffidavit of the applicant in terms of section8B and a certified copy of the findings of theCommission of Inquiry or Special PresidentialCommission of Inquiry or the Interim Reportor Report of the Office on Missing Persons, asthe case may be, relating to such missingperson.

(2) Upon receipt of an application undersubsection (1), the District Registrar shall,notwithstanding anything to the contrary inthe preceding provisions of this Act, forthwithsend to the Registrar-General a Report underhis hand, setting out the particulars of themissing person.

(3) Upon receipt of the Report undersubsection (2), the Registrar-General shallconsider the contents of the Report and makean order directing the District Registrar toregister the missing person in the Register ofMissing Persons and issue under section 8E aCertificate of Absence under his hand to therelative of the missing person who applied forthe same.

(4) The District Registrar shall accordinglyenter such particulars in the Register of MissingPersons as provided under subsections (2) and(3) of section 8H.

(5) The District Registrar shall forthwithforward the duplicate of the relevant registrationentry together with the order issued undersubsection (2), to the Registrar-General. TheRegistrar-General shall forthwith include thenecessary entries to the Register maintainedunder subsection (1) of section 8H. The

9Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)

(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

registration entry made by the Registrar-General shall be final and conclusive for thepurposes of this Act.

8H. (1) Registrar-General shall maintain aRegister of Missing Persons electronically.The information for registration shall beentered based on the name of the missingperson and where available the NationalIdentity Card numerical of the missing person.

(2) Every District Registrar shall alsomaintain a Register of Missing Persons andmake such entries as may be directed by theRegistrar-General by order.

(3) Every registration entry made by theDistrict Registrar

(a)shall be made in the order of time inwhich the particulars were given tothe Registrar-General or the DistrictRegistrar;

(b)shall be numbered consecutivelyand signed by the officer making theentry; and

(c)shall be prepared in triplicate. Theoriginal shall be in the custody ofthe District Registrar, the secondcopy (hereinafter referred to as theduplicate) shall be forwarded tothe Registrar-General and the thirdcopy (hereinafter referred to as theCertificate of Absence) shall bedelivered or transmitted by post tothe relative who applied for thesame, duly endorsed under the handof the District Registrar.

Register ofMissingPersons.

10Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

8I. The provisions in Part VI of the Birthsand Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110)pertaining to correction of any error, includingan omission in any registration entry shall,mutatis mutandis, be applicable to registrationsmade under this Part.

8J. (1) The Certificate of Absence may beused by the relative of the missing person whoapplied for the same in order to

(a) apply for benefits under any socialwelfare scheme;

(b)(i) temporarily manage under thesupervision of the District Court, theproperty and assets of the missingperson and act as a provisionalguardian for dependent children ofthe missing person;

(ii) The application under item (i) shallbe made to the District Court havingjurisdiction in respect of the propertyconcerned or where the dependentchildren reside and shall be dealtwith by summary procedure in thefollowing manner:-

(a) matters pertaining to theadministration of the propertyand other assets of themissing person, shall beconcluded within four monthsfrom the date of application tothe District Court.

(b) matters pertaining toguardianship of children whereboth parents are missing orwhere the surviving parent isunable to secure the wellbeing

Correctionof errors.

Applicabilityof theCertificate ofAbsence.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 201611

of the child, shall be concludedwithin one month.

(c) make representation beforeexecutive, administrative andjudicial authorities on behalf ofthe estate of the missingperson.

(2) All institutions and persons in authorityshall recognize and accept the Certificate ofAbsence as proof of the status of the personmissing.

(3) (a) Any dispute arising in regard to amatter specified under paragraph (a)of subsection (1), may be referred tothe Divisional Secretary of theDivisional Secretarys Division by therelative.

(b) The Divisional Secretary of theDivisional Secretarys Division shallmake a determination after havingdiscussed the matter in dispute withthe relevant Institution, within onecalendar month of receiving theapplication.

(c) The determination of the DivisionalSecretary of the DivisionalSecretarys Division shall be inwriting and be considered asconclusive thereon.

8K. (1) The Certificate of Absence shall bevalid for a period of two years from the datespecified therein:

Provided however

(a) the remains of the missing person isrecovered or other conclusiveevidence is discovered regarding the

Period ofOperation.

12Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

death of the missing person, in suchinstances the Certificate of Absenceshall be annulled and a Certificate ofDeath shall be issued under section 6.

(b) the Missing Person is found to bealive, the provisions of section 13shall mutatis mutandis apply. TheDistrict Registrar shall accordinglytake action to cancel the registrationand annul the Certificate of Absence;

(2) At the conclusion of the period of twoyears, the District Registrar shall inquire fromthe relative who is issued with the Certificate ofAbsence, of the status of the missing personand may subject to subsection (2)(a) of section1 either,

(i) extend the period of the Certificate ofAbsence, subject to subsection (1) (b) ofsection 8A, by endorsement for anothertwo years; or

(ii) direct the relative, if willing to apply for aCertificate of Death, to make anapplication under section 2 and takeaction to cancel the registration and annulthe Certificate of Absence; or

(iii) cancel the Certificate of Absence wherethe relative does not intend to extend theperiod of the said Certificate.

8L. (1) Notwithstanding anything to thecontrary in the preceding provisions of this Act,where, prior to coming into operation of thatPart

(a) an application has been made undersection 2 or 8 for a Certificate of Deathin respect of a missing person; or

Cancellationof aCertificate ofDeath andthe issue of aCertificate ofAbsence.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 201613

(b) a Certificate of Death has been issuedin respect of a missing person,

then a relative of a missing person may make anapplication substantially in the manner specifiedunder section 8G (1). The Registrar-General shallforthwith cancell such application or Certificatereferred to in (a) or (b) respectively and issueda Certificate of Absence under section 8G.

(2) The provisions of section 8D and 8F shallmutatis mutandis apply to an application madeunder this section..

11.Subsection (3) of section 10 of the principalenactment is hereby amended by the substitution for thewords, set out in the Schedule of the words, in Form A setout in the Schedule.

12.Section 14 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

14. For the avoidance of doubt it is herebydeclared that

(a)if the operation of Parts I and IA haslapsed upon the expiry of the periodspecified in subsection (2) of section 1,and no Order for the extension of theperiod of operation of Parts I and IAhas been made in terms of thatsubsections; and

(b)if an application for the issue of aCertificate of Death or of a Certificate ofAbsence respectively, has been madein terms of the provisions of sections2, 8, 8A, 10 and 11 of this Act prior tothe expiry of the period of operation ofParts I or Parts IA,

Avoidance ofdoubt.

Amendment ofsection 10 ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 14 ofthe principalenactment.

14Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

the Registrar-General may proceed to registerthe death of such person or register such personas missing and issue the Certificate of Deathor a Certificate of Absence, respectively, interms of the provisions of Part I and Part IA ofthis Act..

13. Section 15 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (c) ofthat section, of the following new paragraphs:-

(d) being aware that a person who has beenregistered as missing in pursuance of anapplication made under this Act, is alive, failsto furnish such information to the Register-General; or

(e)dishonestly or fraudulently uses a Certificateof Absence issued under this Act knowing orhaving reason to believe that the personreferred to in such Certificate is alive,;

(2)for the words to a term of imprisonment of notexceeding five years. of the words to a fine notexceeding one hundred and fifty thousand rupeesor to a term of imprisonment not exceeding two yearsand six months..

14.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after the definitionof the expression District Registrar of the followingdefinition:-

Minister means the Minister assigned the Registrar-Generals Department;

Amendment ofsection 17 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 15 ofthe principalenactment.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 201615

relative shall in relation to a missing person include thefollowing persons:-

(i)spouse;

(ii)children including adopted children, non-maritalchildren, or step children;

(iii)parents (including step-mother, step-father,adopter);

(iv)full or half brothers or sisters or adopted brothersor sisters;

(v)father-in-law, mother-in-law, brothers-in-law,sisters-in-law, sons-in-law, daughters-in-law;

(vi)grandchildren and grandparents.

15.The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)immediately after the word Schedule by theaddition of the following:-

Form A

(2)by the insertion, immediately after Form A, of thefollowing new Forms:-

Form B

(Section 8A(2))

APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF A MISSINGPERSON AND FOR THE ISSUE OF A CERTIFICATE OF ABSENCE

1. Full name of missing person:

2. Gender and race:

Amendment ofthe Schedule tothe principalenactment.

16Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

3. Date of birth:

4. Last seen date (approximately):

5. Address of last known residence:

6. Address of permanent residence:

7. Full name and residence of the person applying asrelative:

8. Relationship of the person applying as relative toMissing Person:

9. Full name of the Missing Persons:

Father :

Mother :

Spouse :

Dependents :

I...of.........dohereby state that the said (nameof the person missing) has been missing for a period of overone year.

I therefore request that the said .. (nameof the missing person) be registered as a Missing Personunder the Registration of Deaths and Missing Persons(Special Provisions) Act, No.19 of 2010 and a Certificate ofAbsence in respect of such person be issued to me as therelative, and I shall forthwith inform the Registrar-General, ifthe person reported to be missing is found to be alive or onreceiving evidence of the death of the missing person.

..............................DateSignature of Applicant

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 201617

Form C

(Section 8A, 8E and 8H)

Registrar-Generals Department

Certificate of Absence

Number: District: Division:

I have this day received from .. ofnotice that theundermentioned person is missing and do hereby registerthe following information:-

1. Full name of person missing:

2. Date and place of last sighting:

3. Sex:

4. Race:

5. Age of person if present:

6. Rank or Profession:

7. Full name of Missing Persons:

Father:

Mother:

Spouse:

Dependents:

This Certificate shall be valid for a period of two yearsfrom to..

Date: ..................... Registrar: ........................

18Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 2016

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Relative appointed to administer the affairs of theMissing Person

(Name) of (NIC No.) as the (Relationship).

Signature of the relative: .. .

N.B. Section 8J (2) of the Registration of Deaths and MissingPerson (Special Provisions) Act, No. 19 of 2010 requires allInstitutions and Persons in authority to recognize and acceptthe Certificate of Absence as proof of the status of the personmissing when applying for benefits under any social welfarescheme and when making representations on behalf of themissing person and his estate, before executive, administrativeand judicial authorities.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)(Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 201619

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.