PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

ca

_ LOGAL AUTHORITIES HOUSING
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 63 OF 1979 -

\

[Certified on 15th October, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

—

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 19, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
siete enn. AO ee oe ae
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

oe

Price: 45 cents ‘ Postage: 25 cents


Local Authorities Housing (Amendment)
Act, No. 63 of 1979

[Certified on 15th October, 1979]
L.D.—O. 30/79

Aw Act TO AMEND THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES HOUSING
Act, No. 14 or 1964.

BE it enacted Wy the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
Housing (Amendment) Act, No. 63 of 1979.

2. Section 3 of the Local Authorities Housing Act,
No. 14 of 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (3) of that
section, by the substitution, for paragraph (b) of that
subsection, of the following paragraph :—

“(b) unless six months’ notice in writing is given by
that local authority to the first-mentioned person
of its intention to so. let such house to some other
person and alternate accommodation is provided
for the first-mentioned person PY that local
aUWHOrEy," + u

3. The following new section is inserted immediately
after section 5, and shall have effect as section 5a, of the
principal enactment :—

joerg cr 5a. (1) Where prior to the date of coming
rity to into force of this section a house to which
nanan this. Act applies has been let to any person
houses to - under the provisions of section 3(1) and the
’ which this monthly rental of such house immediately

Act applies.

five rupees, the local authority within the
administrative limits of which that house is
situated shall, by an instrument of disposi-
tion, transfer, free of charge, that house to
that person. .

(2) Where prior to the date of coming into
force of this section, a house to which this
Act.applies has been let to any person other-
wise than under the provisions of section
3(1) and the monthly rental of that house
does not exceed twenty-five rupees, the local
‘authority within the administrative limits

A 44504—13,500 (79/09)

prior to such letting did not exceed twenty-.

Short title.

Amendment
of section 3 ~

of Act No. 14
of 1964.

Insertion of ©
‘new section

5A _in the
principal
enactment.


Local Authorities Housing (Amendment)
Act, No. 63 of 1979

of which that house is situated shall, by an
instrument of disposition, transfer, free of
charge, that house—

(a) to the tenant of that house who is in
occupation thereof on the date of
coming into force of this.section ; or

(b) to the person in occupation of that

house on the date of coming into

. force of this section, where the

tenant of that house is not in
occupation thereof on that date,

if, and only if, the Advisory Board consti-
stuted for that local authority is satisfied
that—

@) such tenant or person in occupation,
- as the case may be, is in need of
housing accommodation,

(ii) such tenant or person in occupation,
as the case may be, is a citizen of
Sri Lanka, and

(iii) the name of such tenant or person
in occupation, as the case may be,
appears in the electoral list prepared
for the general election of members ~

. of that local authority.

(3) Where the Advisory Board constituted
for a local authority decides that the tenant
or person in occupation, as the case may be,
of a house referred to in subsection (2) does
not satisfy the requirements set out in
paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii) of that sub-
section—

(a) that tenant or person in occupation, as
the case may be, may appeal against
that decision to the Secretary to the_
Ministry of the Minister in charge
of the subject of Local Government
within -fourteen days of the
communication to him of that deci-
sion. The decision of such Secre-
tary on any such appeal shall be
final ; and


Local Authorities Housing (Amendment) 3
Act, No: 63 of 1979

(b) the local authority within the
administrative. limits of which such
house is situated may, by an instru-
ment of disposition, transfer, free of
charge, that house to any person
who satisfies those requirements.

(4) No transfer of a house shall be made
by a local authority under paragraph (b)
of subsection (3)—

(a) except with the prior approval of the
Advisory Board constituted for that
. local authority ;

(b) unless six months’ notice in writing is’
given by that local authority to the
tenant or person in occupation, as
the case may be, of that house of its
intention to so transfer that house
to some other person and alternate
accommodation is provided for such
tenant or person in occupation, as
the case may be, by unas local
authority ; and

(c) until and unless any appeal made by -
the tenant or person in occupation,
as the case may be, of such house
under paragraph (a) of subsection
(3) has been dismissed.

(5) Nothing in the Prevention of Frauds
Ordinance shall apply to any instrument of
disposition effecting a transfer under sub-
section (1) or subsection (2) or subsection
(3) and no stamp duty shall be payable in
respect thereof. The local authority executing
any such instrument of disposition shall
cause a copy thereof to be presented for -
registration to the Registrar of Lands of the
district in. which the house transferred by
such instrument is situated. No fee shall be
payable in respect of such registration. -

(6) All expenses incurred by a local
authority in transferring a house under this
section shall be a charge on the funds of that
local authority. ”. ¢


Insertion of
new section
11a in
principal
enactment.

4 Local Author ities Housing (Amendment)
Act, No. 63 of 1979 -

/

4. The following new section is inserted immediately
after section 11; and shall have effect as section 11a, of the
principal enactment :—

=" This Act -  -[la, Nothing in this Act shall apply to, or

not to apply . ‘ ‘

to houses to in relation to, any house to which this Act
whic Ss *

Act applies _ applies which has been let by a local autho-
let to officers , ;

or servants rity to an officer or servant of that local

of local . .
authorities. authority as official quarters.”.
