PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
-«, SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
| SRI LANKA

—

EMPLOYEES’ PROVIDENT.FUND
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 42 OF 1988 |

eae _

- [Certified on 24th November, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANES ,

Price : 60 cents

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

“Postage : 75 cents .


Be ployees’ Provident Fund (Amendment),
_ Act, No. 42 of 1988

‘Certified on 24th November, 1988]

 L.D.—O. 21/87
AN ace TO AMEND THE EMPLOYEES’ “ Provinenr FunD Act,
No. 15 or 1958. .

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—~ |

1. This Act may. be cited as the oe Provident
Fund (Amendment) Act; No. 42 of 1988

- 2 Section 5 of the Employees’ Provident Fund Act, No.

15 of 1958 (hereinafter referred to as the “ouincipal

. enactment”) is hereby amened as follows :— .

(a) by the insertion immediately after pataerard, ,
of the following new paragraph :—

“ (ff) shall maintain a Suspense Account, into

which shall’ be credited the contributions

“+ yeceived under this Act in respect of which,

‘the employers have failed to furnish relevant

returns in terms of the Act or any regula-

tions made thereunder, or have furnished
deficient or incorrect returns and thus cannot
be credited to individual accounts, and all
the » moneys held on the date on which this

paragraph comes into force, in an account .
maintained by the Fund in respect of such °

contributions, shall .be transferred by the
Monetary Board to the Suspense Account
created by this paragraph.

As and when an employer, who has failed to

furnish relevant returns as referred to above,
furnishes correct returns in respect of his
employee, the Monetary: Board shall transfer
the moneys lying in the Suspense Account
to the individual account of the member. '

1

Where any moneys are transferred from .

the Suspense Account. to an individual
account as provided for in this paragraph
' Interest shall be paid on that sum, for the

_ period from the date of receipt of such.»

moneys to the date of transfer of such
moneys to the individuals account, for a
period not exceeding six years paler to‘ the

D ov0dso—21 700 eR

Short

title,

Amendment
oi section
5 of the

‘principal

enactment,


2 Employees’ Provident Fund (Amendment)
Act, No. 42 of 1988

date of such transfer, and the rate of interest
'.shall be the rate determined in terms of
section 14(1) of the-Act, and applicable for .
the year in respect of which the interest is
- paid ;”; and .
. oo 5 ; Ay
. (b) -by the. insertion immediately after paragraph (kk)

of the following new paragraph :—

“ (Ieee) shall deduct ‘any otistanding monies due —
on a housing loan under section 22, from the
individual account of. a member, upon. a.
_ directive from the Commissioner to _ that
effect, and transfer the amount so deducted 7
to the relevant lending institution ;” _

Amendment 3. Section 22 of the principal enactment is hereby
Or sectlon 424

of the amended by the insertion of the following proviso, at the
principal

enactment. end of that section :—

‘ Provided however, a member of the Fund may, assign
or .charge: the contributions lying to the credit. of his
individual account in the Fund, with the State Mortgage
and Investment Bank established under the State
Mortgage and Investment Bank Act, No. 13 of 1975, or the
Natiozal Housing and Development Authority established

" - under the National Housing Development Authority Aci,
No. 17 of 1979 or the Housing Development. Finance.
Corporation of Sri Lanka limited established under the
National Housing Act (Chapter 401), ‘or the Peoples’ Bank
established under the Peoples’ Bank Act, ‘No. 29 of 1961,
or the Bank of Ceylon established under the Bank of

Ceylon Ordinance (Chapier 397). or the National Savings

Bank established under the National Savings Bank Act,
No. 30. of 1971, or Multipurpose Corporative :Societies
established under the Corporative Societies Ordinance.
(Chapter 124), against a loan given for housing purposes
by any one of the said lending institutions. :


Employees’ Provident Fund (Amendment) 3
. Act, No. 42 of .1988-

Pen any case where. more than one member of a family
are members of the Fund, all such members of the family
as are members of the Fund may assign or charge the
aggregate of the contributions lying to the credit of their
individual accounts against a housing loan taken as afore-
said.

Where the repayment of the instalment of a loan is ‘in

default, the Commissioner shall, after being so intimated .

by the relevant lending institution, settle the instalment
in. default together with interest accrued on such instal-
_ment to such lending institution, out of the moneys lying
“in the individual account or accounts of such employee

~’ or employees, notwithstanding t the provisions of section

3 or a4 of the Act.

“The intimation by a dlewant lending institution to the
' Commissioner, with respect to defaults in payment by an

employee of.instalments of'a loan shall be made at the ©

end of each calendar year.

‘Where there are any sums outstanding on account of
a housing loon taken as aforesaid at the time of the
payment of a benefit under section 23 or 24, as the case
“may be,. the Commissioner may direct the. Monetary
Board, to deduct such outstanding sums out of the moneys

lying to the credit of such member or members, in his or -

’ their individual accounts as the case may be, and transfer
- the moneys so deducted, immediately after such deduc-
tion, to the respective lending institutions.

For the purpose of section 22, “ family” means a

“member of the Fund, his or her spOure, and his or her
children... — ‘ g * wf

“Ay Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby

a amended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitu-
. tion for the words “Save as hereinafter provided in this
“section”, of the words “Save as hereinafter provided in

‘this section and subject to the deductions made in | section

« 22, 7.

we. ae

Amendment
of section 23
of the
principal
enactment.


4 . Employees? Provident Fund ‘(Ainendment)

ae

Act, No. 42 of 1988 |

5. Section 24 of the principal enachment is hereby

amended as follows : —

Amendment -

-of section 24

of the
principal

‘enactment.
(a) ip subsection (1) of that section, by the substitution Wi, §

for the words “then such amount shall—”, of the —

words and figures “then subject to the deductions ae

made in section 22 , such amount shall— ”

a

(b) in subsection (2) of that ‘section, by the substitution
for the words and figures “such amount shall—” of

the words “subject to the deductions. sniaide: in

section 22, such amount shall—” :

6. ‘The following new section is. hereby “inserted

immediately after section 31 and shall ‘have effect as

section 31a of the principal enactment :— .

“Imposition _

of asur-
charge on
employers

- who fail

to furnish
returns.

“31a. Where any employer,’ who is
“yequired. in terms of this Act or any

zegulation made. thereunder, to furnish a

return together with any contribution, has

failed to furnish “such. return, Within the-

Insertion. -

of new
section 3la
in the
principal
enactment.

specified period or, has furnished’ incorrect - |

or deficient return and is unable to explain

to the satisfaction of the Commissioner, the .

reason for the failure to furnish such return
tor that period, he shall be liable to pay to
the Fund a surcharge at the rate of one

per cent of the amount of such contribution ' 3

. for every completed month or a part thereof
{rom the last date on or before which the .

return was due to the date of receipt by the ‘

Central Bank of Sri Lanka of a duly com- -

pleted return.”
