“ er, pico.

PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON*~

ay Nf

Ath Session 1968- 69) j (96871 1-2 y

Interim Devaluation Allowance

of Employees Act, No. 40
of 1968 ~

Date of Assent : November 10, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLomBo 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 45 cents Postage: 10 cents


Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of 1968

L. D.—O. 10/68.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE PAYMENT, OTHERWISE THAN
BY EMERGENCY LAWS, OF AN INTERIM DEVALUATION
ALLOWANCE BY EMPLOYERS TO INDUSTRIAL AND AGRI-
CULTURAL EMPLOYEES, AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: November 10, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

14. This Act may be cited as the Interim Devalua-
tion Allowance of Employees Act, No. 40 of 1968, and
shall come into operation on such date as may be
appointed by the Minister by Order published in the
Gaeeiye in this Act referred to as the ‘‘ appointed

ate ’’.

2. (1) The Commissioner shall be the competent
authority for the purposes of this Act.

(2) The competent authority may delegate to any
officer of the Labour Department any power, function
or duty conferred or imposed on such authority by
this Act.

3. The provisions of this Act shall have force and
effect notwithstanding anything in any other written
law, or in any contract of employment, whether oral,
written, express or implied; and accordingly, in the
event of any conflict or inconsistency between such
provisions and any such other law or such contract,
such provisions shall to the extent of such inconsistency
prevail over any such other law or such contract.

4. (1) On and after the appointed date, every
employer of any industrial or agricultural employee
shall, in respect of each month, pay such employee an
interim allowance, in this Act referred to as an
** interim devaluation allowance ’’, calculated at the
following rates: —

(2) where such employee is an industrial employee,
other than a piece rated industrial employee,
and

Short title
and date of
operation.

Competent

authority.

This Act to
have force
and etlect
notwith-
standing any-
thing in any
other written
law, &c.

Interim
devaluation
allowance.


2 Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees

Act, No. 40 of 1968

(i) is remunerated at a monthly rate and his

(ii) is

monthly basic wages do not exceed
three hundred rupees, or his monthly
consolidated wages do not exceed five
hundred and five rupees, at the rate of
ten rupees per mensem, or

remunerated at a daily rate and his
monthly basic wages computed at such
daily rate do not exceed three hundred
rupees, or his monthly consolidated
wages computed at such daily rate do
not exceed five hundred and five rupees,
at the rate of forty cents per diem for
each day in respect of which he is
entitled to receive wages ; or

(5) where such employee is an agricultural employee,

other

than a piece rated agricultural

employee, and

(i) is remunerated at a monthly rate, and his

(ii) is

monthly basic wages do not exceed
three hundred rupees or his monthly
consolidated wages do not exceed five
hundred and five rupees, at the rate
of seven rupees and fifty cents per
mensem, or

remunerated at a daily rate and his
monthly basic wages computed at such
daily rate do not exceed three hundred
rupees, or his monthly consolidated
wages computed at such daily rate do
not exceed five hundred and five rupees,
at the rate of thirty cents per diem for
each day in respect of which he 1s
entitled to receive wages; or

(c) where such employee is an industrial or agricul-
tural employee, other than a piece rated
industrial or agricultural employee and 1s
remunerated at a monthly rate, and


Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees 3
Act, No. 40 of 1968

(1) his monthly basic wages exceed three
hundred rupees but do not exceed
three hundred and ten rupees in the
case of an industrial employee, or
three hundred and seven rupees and
fifty cents in the case of an agricul-
tural employee, at the rate specified in
Part I of the Schedule to this Act and
applicable in the case of such
employee; or

(ii) his monthly consolidated wages exceed
five hundred and five rupees but do
not exceed five hundred and fifteen
rupees in the case of an industrial
employee, or five hundred and twelve
rupees and fifty cents in the case of
an agricultural employee, at the rate
specified in Part II of that Schedule
and applicable in the case of such
employee; or

(d) where such employee is a piece rated industrial
employee, at the rate of forty cents in respect
of each complete unit of four rupees compris-
ing his monthly remuneration, so, however,
that the maximum amount payable to such
employee as an interim devaluation allowance
in respect of any month shall not exceed the
amount determined by multiplying forty
cents by the number of days specified in res-
pect of that month in Part III of that
Schedule, or by the number of days such
employee has worked in that month, which-
ever is greater; or

(e) where such employee is a piece rated agricultural
employee, at the rate of thirty cents in respect
of each complete unit of two rupees and
seventy cents comprising his monthly remu-
neration, so, however, that the maximum
amount payable to such employee as an
interim devaluation allowance in respect of
any month shall not exceed the amount deter-
mined by multiplying thirty cents by the
number of days specified in respect of that
month in Part IIT of that Schedule, or by the
number of days such employee has worked in
that month, whichever is greater:


Payment due
under section
4 to constitute
part of an
employee's
wages.

Power of entry
and inspection.

4 Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of 1968

Provided, however, that any such employee who is
entitled to a cost of living allowance determined in
accordance with the Colombo Consumers’ Price Index
Figure, or to a special allowance payable under the —
Wages Boards Ordinance, shall not be entitled, for the
duration of the period for which such interim devalua-
tion allowance is payable, to any such cost of living
allowance in excess of the amount determined in accor-
dance with the cost of living index figure of 116.3, or
to such special allowance in excess of the amount paid
for the month of December, 1967, unless such cost
of living allowance or such special allowance in respect
of any month exceeds the aggregate of the cost of
living allowance determined in accordance with the
aforesaid cost of living index figure, or the special
allowance paid for the said month of December and
the interim devaluation allowance in which case such
employee shall, in respect of that month, be entitled,
in addition to the interim devaluation allowance, to
be paid the amount of such excess.

(2) The interim devaluation allowance shall be
deemed to be part of the cost of living allowance
payable in accordance with the Colombo Consumers’
Price Index Figure, or the special allowance payable
under the decisions of the Wages Boards constituted
under the Wages Boards Ordinance for all purposes,
whether of any written law or otherwise, for which
such cost of living allowance, or special allowance,
as the case may be, is taken into account.

5. Any sum due by way of an interim devaluation
allowance to an employee under section 4 shall, for
all purposes of any written law or otherwise, be deemed
to constitute part of his wages, and accordingly every
employer of an industrial or agricultural employce
shall pay such sum within the period he 1s liable to
pay the wages of such employee.

6. The competent authority shall have power—

(a) to enter and inspect at all reasonable hours of
the day or night any place in which employees
are employed for the purpose of examining
any register or record of wages, OF of ascer-
taining whether the provisions of this Act
are being complied with; or


Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees 5
Act, No. 40 of 1968

(6) where any such record or register is not availa-
ble for examination when he is inspecting
such place, to require the production of such
register or record on a specified later date
for examination at such place or at the office
of such authority; or

(c) to take copies of the whole or any part of any
such register or record; or

(2) to interrogate any person whom he finds in such
place and whom such authority has reason-
able cause to believe is an employer or an
employee engaged or employed in any trade,
industry, business or occupation carried on
in such place or is an employer or an
employee in the establishment or institution
in such place.

7. (1) The competent authority may direct any
employer to furnish to him before a specified date—

(az) a return relating to all his employees or any
specified class or description of such
employees and containing such particulars as
such authority may require for the purposes
of this Act; or

(b) such information or explanation as such
authority may require in respect of any
particulars stated in any return furnished by
such employer; or

(c) a true copy of the whole or any part of any
register or record maintained by such
employer.

(2) A direction under sub-section (1) of this section
may be given by notice published in the Gazette and
in two or more newspapers circulating in Ceylon.

Power of
competent
authonty to
call for returns.


Special
provisions
regarding
payments under
section 4,

Special
Provisions
regarding
continuation

of employment.

Failure to pay
sums due under
section 4 or
failure to
comply with
section 9.

6 Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of 1968

8. The amount payable by an employer to an
employee by virtue of the operation of the provi-
sions of section 4 shall be in substitution for, and not
in addition to, any other payment to which such
employee is entitled from such employer, being a
payment which is calculated on the basis of the
Colombo Consumers’ Price Index Figure, or which is
a special allowance under the Wages Boards
Ordinance, and is payable under any agreement by
whatsoever name or designation called, entered into,
or arrived at, under any written law or otherwise.

9. Every person, who having been an industrial or
agricultural employee of any employer on the day
immediately prior to December 1, 1967, shall, for so
long as he continues to be an employee of such
employer, be so continued in employment by such
employer on such terms and conditions relating to
salary, allowances or other payments in money by
whatsoever name or designation called, excluding the
interim devaluation allowance, as are not less
favourable than such employee had or enjoyed on the
day immediately prior to that date.

40. (1) Any employer who fails to pay any sum
required to be paid to an employee of such employer
under section 4 or who fails to comply with the provi-
sions of section 9 shall be guilty of an offence and shall
be liable to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for a term
not exceeding six months or to both such fine and
imprisonment, and shall, in addition, be liable to a
fine not exceeding fifty rupees for each day on which
the offence is continued after conviction.

(2) Upon the conviction by a court of an employer
for an offence by reason of the failure of such
employer to pay any sum required to be paid to an
employee of such employer under section 4, the court
in addition to any other penalty which 1t may
d for such offence, order such employer
sum to such employee, within a period
he order, and if such sum is not so paid,
nd paid to such employee .
f it were a fine imposed

may,
have impose
to pay such
specified in t
such sum may be recovered ar
on the order of the court as 1

by the court.


Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees 7
Act, No. 40 of 1968

44. Every person who—

(a) fails to furnish the means required by the
competent authority as necessary for any
entry or inspection or the exercise of his
powers under section 6; or | 4

(5) hinders or molests such authority in the exercise
of the powers conferred by that section; or

(c) refuses to produce any register or record of
wages, or give any information which such
authority requires him to produce or give
under the powers conferred by that section; or

(d@) makes or causes to be made any register or
record of wages which is false in any material
articular, or produces or causes or know-
ingly allows to be produced any such register
or record to such authority acting under the
powers conferred by that section, knowing the

same to be false; or

(e) furnishes any information to such authority
acting under the powers conferred by that
section, knowing the same to be false; or

(f) makes default in complying with any direction
given by such authority under section 7, or
who, when called upon to furnish a return
under the said section 7, knowingly makes
or furnishes, or causes to be made or furnish-
ed, a false return or a return containing any
false statement,

shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable to a fine
not exceeding one thousand rupees or to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding six
months or to both such fine and imprisonment.

42. (1) Where an offence for which an employer
is liable under this Act has in fact been committed by
some agent of the employer or. other person, that
agent or other person shall be liable to be proceeded
against for the offence in the same manner as if he
were the employer, and either together with, or before
_ or after the conviction of the: employer, and shall be

liable on conviction to the same punishment as that to
’ which the employer is liable. :

. (2) Where an employer who is charged with an
-.Offence under this Act, proves to the satisfaction of the
-.court that he has used due diligence to enforce the
execution of this Act and that the offence was in fact
committad hw hie agent or some other person without

Liability of
employer's
agent.


Court of trial for
offences.

Interpretation.

8 Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of 1968

his knowledge, consent or connivance, such employer
shall be exempt from any penalty in respect of the
offence, without prejudice however to the power of the
court under section 10 (2) to order such employer to
pay any sum which appears to be due to the employee
under section 4.

13. All offences under this Act shall be triable
summarily by a Magistrate.

144. In this Act, unless the context otherwise

requires—

‘‘ agricultural employee’’ means an employee
employed in one or more of the following
trades, namely, the Tea Growing and
Manufacturing Trade, the Rubber Growing
and Manufacturing Trade, the Coconut
Growing Trade, the Cinnamon Trade, the
Cocoa, Cardamom and Pepper Growing and
Manufacturing Trade, and the Tobacco
Trade, as defined under and for the purposes
of the Wages Boards Ordinance, and
includes—

(a) any such employee engaged on—
(i) a rubber plantation less than
twenty-five acres in extent;

(ii) a coconut plantation not exceeding
ten acres in extent; ;

(iii) a tobacco plantation not exceeding
one acre in extent;

(iv) a cinnamon plantation not
exceeding five acres in extent;
or

(v) a cocoa plantation not exceeding
twenty-five acres in extent;

(b) a watcher employed on any coconut
plantation ;

(c) a piece rated agricultural employee
which would include any person
engaged on weeding or other contract
work;

‘‘ Commissioner ’? means the person for the time
being holding the office of Commissioner of
Labour and includes any person for the time
being holding office as a Deputy Commissioner
of Labour or as a Senior Assistant
Commissioner of Labour or as an Assistant
Commissioner of Labour or as a Labour
Officer;


Interim Devaluation Allowance of Employees 9
Act, No. 40 of 1968

‘‘ consolidated wages ’’ means wages, other than
wages comprised of the following :—

(2) basic wage;

(b) a cost of living allowance, a special
living allowance, or any other like or
similar allowance;

’

‘‘ employee ’’ means any employee who is liable to
contribute to the Employees’ Provident
Fund, established by the Employees’ Provi-
dent Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958, and includes
any employee who is liable to contribute to
any provident fund or contributory pension
scheme which has been declared under that
Act to be an approved provident fund or an
approved contributory pension scheme, but
does not include an employee of a corporation
whose capital is wholly provided by the
Government, or a local government employee;

5)

‘‘ employer ’’’ means any person who on his own
behalf employs, or any person who on behalf
of any other person employs, any person;

ee )

industrial employee ’’ means any employee other
than an agricultural employee;

¢ bf

wages ’’ includes salary.

SCHEDULE
Part I *
Interim Devaluation Allowance

Industrial Employee Agricultural Employee

The difference between Rs. 310 and the The difference between Rs. 307.50 and
monthly basic wages. the monthly basic wages.


10 Inéérim Devaluation Allowance of Employees
Act, No. 40 of 1968

Part IL
Interim Devaluation Allowance

Industrial Employee Agricultural Employee

“The difference between Rs. 515 and the The difference between Rs. 512.50 and
monthly consolidated wages. the monthly consolidated wayes.

Part lil

January 27 days April 26days July 27 days October 27 days
February 24 , May 27 5, August 27 l4gs November 26 ,,
March 27. ~-,, June 26 ,, September 26, December 2 x
