-
’

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF —

SRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
(AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 4 OF 1995

[Certified on 10th February, 1995]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 10, 1995

PRINTED AT THE DFPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 60 cents, Postage: Rs. 2.00

I


Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act No. 4 of 1995

[Certified on 10th February, 1995]

L.D.—O 2/92.
An Act TO AMEND THE CopE oF CRIMINAL PROCED
No. 15 or 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialis*
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

urz Act,

1. This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal Proce-
dure (Amendment) Act, No. 4 of 1995.

2. Section 291 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal
enactment”) is her-by amended by the repeal of subsection
(4) of that section and the substitution therefor of the
following subsection :—

*(4) ¢a)Whnere an ofrenaer nas been sentencea to fine

only and to imprisonment in default of the fine, the Court .

shall except in any case where the offender pays the entire
sum due as a fine in full, do all or any of the following
things :—

(i) allow time for the payment of the said fine;

(ii) direct payment to be made of the said fine by ‘instal.

ments ;

(iii) direct that the person liable to pay the said fine shall

be at liberty to give to the satisfaction of the court
a bond, in the relevant prescribed form with or
without a surety or sureties, for the payment of the
said fine or any instalment thereof and such bond
may be given and enforced in the manner provided
by this Code:

Provided that, where the court has done all or any of the
things specified in subparagraphs (i), (ii), and (iii) in
respect of an offender who has been sentenced to fine only
and to imprisonment in default of such fine, the court shali
not, except in exceptional circumstances and for reasons to
be recorded, do all or any of the things specified in such
sub-paragraphs, in respect of that offender, in the event of

a subsequent default by the same offender in respect of the
same offence.

(6) Where any person is, on the date on which this
subsection comes into force, serving a period of imprison-
ment in default of payment of a fine, it shall be the duty of
the Superintendent of the prison in which such person is
scrving his sentence, to produce such perscn before the
eourt which sentenced him, for steps to be taken in
accordance with Paragraph (a).

Shoré titie,

Amendment
of secttion
291 of

Act No. 2
of 1978.


2 Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act No. 4 of 1995

(c) Where any payment has to be made under sub-para-
graph (i) or (it) o1 paragraph (a), the pa,m-nt shall be
made at any approved bank or office of any Divisional
Secretary or Post Office, within the period specilied by the
Court directing the making of such payment, and for this
purpose, the Court shall issue to the offender, a statement

-in the prescribed form setting out the amount of the fine,
the amount of each instalment, the number of instalments
in which the fine shall be paid and other relevant details,
to be produced by the offender at such Bank, office of any
Divisional Secretary or Post Office when making such
payment. The Bank, Divisional Secreiury or Post Iaster
of such Post Office shall, upon accepting payment of such
fine or instairnert, as the case muy be, rnuke an endorse-
ment to that effect on the statement, return such state.
ment to the offender and shall forward proof of payment
of such fine or instalment, as «he case mav be, in the
prescribed form, to the Court directing the making of such
payment, not later than two weeks of the making of such
payment. .

(d) In this subsection “approved bank” means any
licensed commercial bank, within the meaning of the
Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988, as the Minister may specify by
Order published in the Gazette.’,

Amendment 3. The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
wsacis hereby amended by the addition at the end of that Schedule
Schedule : |
to the of the following new forms :—

principal ”

enactment. No. 19

FORM OF BOND TO BE GIVEN (WITHOUT SURETIES) FOR
PAYMENT OF FINE

{Section 291 (4)]

(Name and address of offender) hereby firmly bind myself to pay
to Court the sum of rupees ...... .. being payment of the fine
which I was sentenced by Court to pay, in respect of Case No....

The condition of the said Bond is that if I the said........
(name of offender) shall pay the said fine at the ..... ... (office
of the Divisional Secretary, Bank or Post Office) in ........instal
ments of Rs......... within a period of ...... months I shal] be
released from the said bond failing which payment, I shall _be

taken into custody to serve the period of imprisonment in respect
of my default.


Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment) 3
Act No. 4 of 1993

When released under this bond my residence to which notices
etc., are to be addressed will be as follows :—

@eveceeeevneeeeveeer+sore e@evVesseeseereeorere @e@eere

eee sevreeeeseoeeeeeeeeceaese Goer eseovesee se eee

Signed serene.
Offender.

Date: .srrccee
Taken and scknowledged before me on the _._... Gey of .-.>

Signed ......6
Registrar. |

No. 20

FORM OF BOND TO R®™ G'VEN (UNTH SURETIES) FOR
PAYMENT OF FINE

[Section 291(4)]
On (hiS secscesrcsrs Cay: Off ssecessieerae IDReIeEE T sevewenes Of sex
(Name, occupation and address of offender) a principal debtor

and I/We ........ Of seccews (Name, occupation and address of

surety sureties) as surety/sureties do bind ourselves, jointly and

sevcrally to pay te court, the sum of Rs. ........ such sum heing
the fire to which ........ (nwne of ofcnder) has been sentenced
by court to pay in respect of Case No. ........

The condition of the said Bond is that the said offender shall

be bound to pay as principal debtor the fine of Rs. ........ at
The sevesas . (Office of the Divisional Secretary. Bank or Post
Office) in .. .... instalments of Rs. ........ within a_ period
OL ssswewes months, |

In the event of the offender failing to pay the said amount in
accordance with the above condition, I/We the ..... . (Name of
surety/sureties) mentioned herein personally underiake to “pay
the said fine. , .

Signed «ist

Surety/Sureties.
Date: eeve @ee
Taken and acknowledged before me on the ........ Day of

BOUT Eee © bern

S gned ......0.
Registrar.


Sinhala

text to
revail

in case of
inconsistency,

4 Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)
Act No. 4 of 1995

No. 21
FORM OF STATEMENT TO BE ISSUED TO OFFENDER

[Section 291 (4)}
Case: NO.. cocaisiece:eiece

In the High Court holden at ........

In the Magistrate’s Court of ......0
In the Primary Court 2f .......+
By the judyziment/Order pronounced/made by the Judge of the

Hizh Conrt/Magistiate/Judge of the Primary Court in the above-

mentioned case, you ........ (Name and address of offender}
were scnteneed to a fine in the amount of ........ end te

imprisonment in default of the fine.

You are hereby ordered by Court tn nrnduce this Statement »°
serene ier ‘Bank; Office of any Divisional Secretary or PostOffice
and pzy the fine imposed on you at such Bank. Office of any
Divisional Secretary or Post Office, in .... instalment of Rs. ....
each on cr kefore ...... (This statement will be returned te
you by the Bank, Divisional Secretary or Past Master upon
accepting payment of the fine or mstakment, to enable you te
pay the subsequent instalments).

By Order of Court,
Registrar,

FORM 22
FORM IN RESPECT OF PROOF OF PAYMENT

[Section 291 (4)]

Case Nos seseweeewes

To the Registrar of the Siete eters ~ Court. .
This is to acknowledge receipt of Rs, ........ from .....ces
(Name and address of offender) on ..... ... as payment of the

fine/instalment he hag been ordered ky Court to pay in respect of
Caxc No. see eeee

Date = vececzererere ;
SIGNER. se cccsrerarererererorers

Bank Manager/Divisional
SEAL Sccretary/Post Master. ”-

4, In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act the Sinhala text shall prevalL


ee

Annual subscription of Englisn Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local).

Rs. 1,180 (Foreign), payable to the SuperinTENDENT GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS

Bureau, No, 255, Bauddhaloka Mawatha, Colombo 7, before 1a Derember eck
¥zar in respect of the year following,
