PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 7.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2007

[Certified on 12th April, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 14 OF 2007

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20071

Short title.

[Certified on 12th April 2007]

L. D. O. 3/2007

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 14 of 2007, and shall be deemed tohave come into effect on January 1, 2007.

2.Section 5 of the Value Added Tax Act, No. 14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words of like nature as the case may be. of the words

of like nature as the case may be :

Provided however, in the case of a supply of services madeunder any lottery , any commission including the ValueAdded Tax charged on such commission, paid to any agenton the sale of a lottery, if any, shall be deducted in additionto the deductions referred to in this subsection..

3.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words after the expiry of each taxable period a returnof his supplies of the words after the expiry of each taxableperiod, a return either in writing or by electronic means, of hissupplies.

4.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in the second proviso to subsection (1) of that section,by the substitution for the words the CustomsOrdinance shall be charged of the words and figuresthe Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) or acess undersubsection (1) of section 14 of Sri Lanka ExportDevelopment Act, No. 40 of 1979, shall be charged;

Amendment ofsection 21 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 ofthe principalenactment.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

(2)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionin the fourth proviso thereto, for the words thepurchase of goods or services specified in the FourthSchedule (Luxury Rate) by any person which isallowable under this Act shall be restricted to fifteenper centum. of the words the purchase orimportation of goods or the purchase of servicesspecified in the Fourth Schedule (Luxury Rate)which is allowable by any person under this Actshall be restricted to fifteen per centum other thanin relation to the input tax paid on any goodsimported including any goods received from abonded area, by a registered person who imports orreceives such goods, being raw-material to be usedby such person for the purpose of manufacture andexport of goods so manufactured;

(3)in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the input tax allowable under thisAct exceeds the amount of the output tax of thewords and figures subject to subsection (10), theinput tax allowable under this Act exceeds theamount of the output tax;

(4)in subsection (6) of that section

(a) in paragraph (ii), by the substitution for thewords not connected with a taxable activityof the words not connected with a taxableactivity or not included in the value of taxablesupply;

(b)in the second proviso, by the substitution forthe words and figures such input tax for anytaxable period commencing on or after January1, 2003 of the words and figures such inputtax for any taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2003 but prior to January 1,2007..

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20073

(5)by the addition immediately after subsection (9) ofthat section, of the following new subsection :

(10) The amount of input tax allowable underthe preceding provisions of this section for anytaxable period, shall be further restricted to a lesseramount of eighty five per centum of the output taxdeclared for that taxable period or the input taxallowable under the provisions of this Act. Theresidue, if any, of allowable input tax including theexcess input tax as at December 31, 2006, in the caseof a registered person who imports goods for re-salewithout processing referred to in the third proviso tosubsection (5) of section 22 restricted to eighty-fiveper centum, shall be deemed to be a part of the inputtax allowable in the subsequent taxable period orperiods, subject however to the same restriction:

Provided however, the above restriction shall notapply in relation to input tax attributable to

(i)supplies which are zero rated;

(ii)supplies on which the tax is differed underthis Act, being supplies; made to exportersregistered with Textile Quota Boardestablished under the Textile Quota BoardAct, No. 33 of 1996 or with the ExportDevelopment Board extablished under theExport Development Act, No. 40 of 1979, bya registered person with the Textile QuotaBoard or the Export Development Board asthe case may be, referred to in paragraph (c)of subsection (2) of section 2; and

(iii)project related goods or services during theproject implementation period, incurred by aperson who is registered under subsection (7)of section 22..

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

5. Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words so undercharged or overcharged. of the words,

so undercharged or over charged :

Provided however, the adjustment in respect of input taxunder claimed on an original tax invoice shall be madein respect of a tax debit note or a tax credit note issuednot later than six months after the issue of the originaltax invoice, to which the tax debit note or the tax creditnote relates..

6.The following new Chapter is hereby insertedimmediately after Chapter IIIA of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as Chapter IIIB (sections 25H and 25I) ofthat enactment :

CHAPTER IIIB

25H. (1) A tax (hereinafter referred to asoptional value added tax) shall be chargedon the aggregate turnover from each taxableactivity carried on, or carried out, in Sri Lankaby a person or a partnership, if such person orpartnership is registered under this Chapter inaccordance with the provisions of this Chapterfor every quarter commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2007, at the rate of five per centum.

(2) For the purposes of this Chapterturnover in relation to any taxable activitymeans the total amount received or receivablefrom transactions entered into in respect of thetaxable activities carried on, or carried out, inSri Lanka, other than any supply specified inthe First Schedule, or zero rated suppliesreferred to under section 7, or supplies referredto in section 3 of the Act or to the sale of anycapital assets.

Impositionof optionalvalue addedtax.

Insertion of newChapter IIIB inthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20075

(3) In this subseciton

capital assets shall have the same meaning as isgiven to it in section 25 of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006.

quarter means the period of three monthscommencing on the first day of January, the firstday of April, the first day of July and the first dayof October of each year.

25I. (1) A person or a partnership referred toin subsection (2), may apply for registrationunder this Chapter and

(a)the Commissioner General shall, if he issatisfied that the conditions specified insubparagraphs (i) and (ii) of paragraph (a)of subsection (2) are complied with,register such person or partnership on arequest made for registration and shallforthwith assign a registration number tosuch person or partnership ;

(b)such registration shall be valid for a periodof three years from the date ofcommencement of the quarter in which theregistration is obtained or up to the end ofthe quarter in which the aggregate turnoverof such person or partnership exceedsrupees two million and five hundredthousand per year, whichever occurs first.

(2) (a) the provisions of subsection (1) shallapply to any person or partnership

(i)whose agregate turnover from everytaxable activity carried on or carried out,does not exceed rupees two million andfive hundred thousand per year or sixhundred and twenty five thousand perquarter; and

Registration.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

(ii)who or which is not registered underChapter II.

(b) Any person or partnership registeredunder this Chapter may apply to theCommissioner-General to cancel suchregistration and further request theCommissioner-General to register him underChapter II, at any time during the period inwhich registration under this Chapter subsists.

(c) The provisions of Chapters I, II, III orIIIA shall not apply to a person or partnershipwhose registration during the period issubsisting under this Chapter..

7.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 26 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 26A of that enactment :

26A. (1) Every Government Agency whichmakes payment in pursuance of a contract towhich such Agency is a party or on behalf ofany other person who is a party to a contractshall, deduct from such payment one- third ofthe tax included in such payment, and theamount of tax so deducted shall be a debt duefrom such Government Agency to the Republicand shall be recoverable forthwith or may beassessed and charged upon such GovernmentAgency in addition to any tax, if any, otherwisepayable by such Government Agency under thisAct :

Provided that no such deduction shall bemade

(i)where the total consideration for theperformance of such contract does notexceed five hundred thousand rupeesexcluding the Value Added Tax; or

Insertion of newsection 26A inthe principalenactment.

Deductionof tax frompayments.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20077

(ii)where the payment made is an immediatesettlement for the goods supplied oncontract ; or

(iii)where the Commissioner-General is of theopinion that deduction is impracticableor inexpedient having regard to all thecircumstances of the case.

(2) Any Government Agency who deducts taxin accordance with the provisions of subsection(1) shall

(a)issue to the person from whose paymentthe deduction is made, a Certificateshowing

(i)the gross amount of payment ;

(ii)the total tax and the amount ofone-third of the tax so deducted ;and

(iii)the net amount actually paid; and

(b)remit the tax so deducted in any calendarmonth on or before the end of the first weekof the subsequent month to theCommissioner-General together with thestatement showing

(i)the name and address of the personto whom the payment was madeand the registration number of suchperson ;

(ii)the gross amount of suchpayment ;

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

(iii)the total tax, one-third of the taxdeducted and the amountactually paid ;

(iv)the name and address of theGovernment Agency who madethe payment and the registrationnumber, if any ; and

(v)details of remittances, the chequenumbers and the date of payment.

(3) Where the taxable supplies of a personincludes a sum from which tax has beendeducted and remitted in accordance withsubsection (1) and (2), he shall be entitled onproduction of the Certificate relating to suchsum issued in accordance with subsection (2),to set off against the tax payable by him theamount shown in the Certificate as the amountof tax deducted.

(4) For the purposes of this sectioncontract means

(i)any contract in respect of constructionwork or services of whatever nature notbeing a contract of employment ;

(ii)any contract for the supply of goods orservices in respect of any contractspecified in sub-paragraph (i) ;

(iii) any sub contract in respect of anycontract specified in sub-paragraphs (i)or (ii) ; or

(iv)any contract for the provision ofservices including a contract for the

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 20079

provision of services as an entertainer orartist other than a contract ofemployment.

(5) For the purposes of this sectionGovernment Agency means any Ministry,Department, Government Owned BusinessUndertaking, public corporation, ProvincialCouncil, local authority, University, State bank,project funded by any Government institutionfor which funds are provided from theConsolidated Fund and the Board of Investment.

(6) Where any person fails to deduct tax interms of subsection (1) or fails to remit undersub section (2) any tax payable to theCommissioner General, such tax shall be deemedto be in default and the provision of this Actrelating to the recovery of tax shall accordinglyapply on any such default tax.

(7) Any person who has made any deductionunder subsection (1) or any remittance inpursuance of subsection (2) shall be deemed tohave acted under the authority of the person bywhom the tax was payable and of all otherpersons concerned, and is hereby indemnifiedin respect of such deduction or remittances asthe case may be, against all proceedings, civil orcriminal, notwithstanding the provision of anywritten law, contract or agreement.

8.Section 76 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, in the third proviso to subsection (1) of that sectionby the substitution for the words if such supply subsequentlybecomes an exempt supply except in the case of providingleasing facilities for three wheelers of the words and figuresif such supply becomes an exempt supply on or beforeDecember 31, 2006..

Amendment ofsection 76 ofthe principalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

9.The First Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in PART II as follows :

(1)in paragraph (a) of that Schedule

(a)in item (vi) by the substitution for the wordsaviation fuel and oil for ships ; of thewords and figures aviation fuel, oil for shipsor fuel oil specified under Harmonized ofCommodity Description Number2710. 19. 60.;

(b)in item (vii) by the substitution for the wordsand Braille writing boards of the wordsBraille writing boards and any other articleswhich are used by disabled persons whichare approved by Minister, taking intoconsideration the degree of relief requestedby such persons, on an application made forthat purpose.;

(c)by the addition immediately after item (xiv)of the following :

(xv)prawns. ;

(2)in paragraph (b) thereof:

(a)by the addition, immediately after item (xvi)of the following :

(xvii)any film, for distribution or exhibition

(xviii)laboratory facilities for production ofany film ;

(xix)locally manufactured handloomtextiles ;

Amendment ofthe FirstSchedule to theprincipalenactment.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 200711

(xx)locally manufactured coconut oil ;

(xxi)services being chartering of anyvessel;;

(b)by the substitution in item (i) (a) for wordsthat followed the Government curricula ; andof the words that followed the Governmentcurricula other than any service not within thecontext of educational services or any part ofsuch educational services not within theGovernment curricula;; and

(c)by the repeal of item (ii) and substitutiontherefor of the following :

(ii) (a)public passengers transport services(other than air transport, watertransport or transport of tourists,excursion tours and taxiservices) ; or

(b)the provision of leasing facilitiesfor

A.such motor coaches with aseating capacity not less thantwenty eight passenger seatsand used for such publicpassenger transport services ifsuch lease agreement isentered into prior to January1, 2004;

B.three wheelers in respect ofrental falling due for paymenton or after January 1, 2005 ;

C.any bus referred to in item (xv)of paragraph (c).;

12Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

(d)by the repeal of item (iii) and the substitutiontherefor of the following :

(iii)electricity including distribution..

(3)in paragraph (c) thereof, by the addition, immediatelyafter item (xii) of the following :

(xiii)any machinery or equipment by the CeylonElectricity Board or an Institution which hasentered into an agreement with the CeylonElectricity Board to supply electricity requiredfor the purpose of generating electricityidentified under specified HarmonizedCommodity of Description Numbers forcustom purposes, approved by the Minister ;

(xiv)any film which is produced in Sri Lanka andsent abroad for further processing or printing,with the approval of the Chairman of theNational Film Corporation ;

(xv)any bus by the holder of any valid passengerservice permit issued by the National TransportCommission or any Provincial Road PassengerTransport Authority for the replacement of abus which is being used for the transport ofpassengers and which has been so used fornot less than five years at the time of suchimport ;

(xvi)machinery identified under the specifiedHarmonised of Commodity DescriptionNumbers for Custom purposes, formodernization of factories by the factoryowner with the approval of the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue ;

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 200713

(xvii)poultry keeping machinery, poultryincubators and brooders, the import of cattle,buffaloes, poultry, pigs, goats, sheep forbreeding purposes and the seimen andembryos of such animals for breedingpurposes, under the specified Harrmonised ofCommodity Description Numbers for theCustom purposes, with the approval of theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenue ;

(xviii)finished leather to be used for the shoemanufacturing industry, on therecommendation of the Secretary to theMinistry of Industrial Development subjectto approval by the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance..

10.Third Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for the words the supply orimport of- of the words and figures (1) The supplyor import of;

(2)by the deletion of item (vi), and the renumbering ofitem (vii) as item (vi);

(3)by the insertion immediately after item (vi) of thefollowing new items :

(vii)high-tec medical equipment or anymachinery used for the manufacture of ticketissuing machinery identified, by theCommissioner-General of Inland Revenueunder the specified Harmonized ofCommodity Description Numbers forCustom purposes ;

(viii)jewellery;; and

Amendmentof the ThirdSchedule tothe principalcnactment.

14Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 2007

(4) by the addition immediately after item (viii) of thefollowing :

(2)The import of cine films, cinematographicfilms exposed and developed, magnetic cinesound recorders, cinematographic camerasand projector, parts and accessories, apparatusand equipments for cinematographiclaboratories, identified by the CommissionerGeneral of Inland Revenue under the specifiedHarmonized of Commodity DescriptionNumbers for Custom purposes, with theapproval of the Chairman, National FilmCorporation..

11.(1) The amendments made to the principalenactment by the provisions of this Act, except theincorporation of the exemption by item (xx) to paragraph (b)of the First Schedule, shall be deemed for all purposes tohave come into effect on January 1, 2007.

(2) The exemption incorporated in item (xx) to paragraph(b) shall be deemed for all purposes to have come into effecton July 1, 2006.

12.Any person who collects the value added tax asprovided for in this Act, during the period commencingJanuary 1, 2007 and ending on the date of the coming intooperation of this Act, shall be deemed to have acted with dueauthority and such collection shall be deemed for all purposesto have been, and to be, validly made and such person ishereby indemnified against all actions civil or criminal inrespect of such collection.

13. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Indemnity.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 14 of 200715

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.