PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 15.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 16, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

INDUSTRIAL DISPUTES (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 22 OF 2022

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 20221

L.D.-O. 25/2021

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INDUSTRIAL DISPUTESACT (CHAPTER 131)

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1. This Act may be cited as the Industrial Disputes(Amendment) Act, No. 22 of 2022.

2. Section 31DD of the Industrial Disputes Act(Chapter 131) (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the insertion immediatelyafter subsection (1) of that section of the following newsubsections:

(1A) Where an employer who is dissatisfied witha final order of a High Court established under Article154P of the Constitution which is in favour of a workmanon an apeal made by such workman against any orderof a tribunal, appeals to the Supreme Court against suchorder, he shall furnish to the President of such tribunal,a security in cash, where the order which is the subjectof such appeal directs

(a) only the payment of a sum of money to theworkman of an amount equal to such sum;

(b) both the payment of a sum of money to theworkman and re-instatement of such worker,of an amount equal to such sum and twelvetimes the monthly salary or wages of suchworkman at the time his services wereterminated.

(1B) Every appeal preferred under subsection (1A),shall be supported by a certificate under the hand of the

Short title

Amendment ofsection 31DD ofChapter 131

[Certified on 16th of September, 2022]

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 20222

President of the Tribunal to the effect that the securityas specified in subsection (1A) has been duly furnishedby the employer.

(1C) The President of every Tribunal shall causeall moneys furnished as security under subsection (1A)to be deposited in an account bearing interests, in anyapproved bank in Sri Lanka..

3. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 31DDDD of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 31DDDDD of that enactment:

31DDDDD. (1) Where an application ispreferred by an employer to the Court ofAppeal, for the issue of an order in the natureof a writ, against an award made by an arbitratorunder section 17(1) or by an industrial courtunder section 24, the Court of Appeal shallentertain such application upon furnishing asecurtiy by such employer, in cash to theCommissioner-General, where such awardwhich is subject to such application directs thepayment of a sum of money to the worker, ofan amount equal to such sum.

(2) The Commissioner-General shall causeto be deposited the sum as specified insubsection (1) in an account bearing interests,maintained by the Commissioner-General, inany approved bank in Sri Lanka.

(3) Every application preferred under thissubsection, shall be supported by a certificateunder the hand of the Commissioner-Generalto the effect that the security as specifed insubsection (1) has been duly furnished by suchemployer..

Insertion of newsection 31DDDDD inthe principalenactment

Employer tofurnish asecurity inrespect of anapplication tothe Court ofAppeal

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 20223

4. The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 33 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 33A of that enactment:

33A. (1) Where an employer who isdissatisfied with an order of a MagistratesCourt on any written complaint made by theCommissioner-General under section 136B ofthe Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979 against such employer, due to any failureto comply with an order of a tribunal, an awardof an industrial court or an arbitrator which hasbeen made in favor of a workman, makes anapplication to invoke the revisionaryjurisdiction of the High Court establisded underArticle 154P of the Constitution, in respect ofsuch order, shall at the time of such applicationfurnish to the relevant Magistrates Court, asecurity of an amount equal to such sum in cash,where the order which is the subject of suchapplication directs the payment of a sum ofmoney to the worker.

(2) The Registrar of the Magistrates Courtshall cause all moneys furnished as securityunder subsection (1), to be sent to theCommissioner-General to deposit in an accountbearing interests, maintained by theCommissioner-General, in any approved bankin Sri Lanka.

(3) Every application made under subsection(1) shall be supported by a certificate under thehand of the Registrar of the relevantMagistrates Court to the effect that the securityas specified in subsection (1) has been dulyfurnished by such employer.

Employer tofurnish asecurity inrespect of anapplication tothe High Court

Insertion of section33A in the principalenactment

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 20224

(4) The Commissioner-General shall refundthe sum furnished under subsection (1) togetherwith the interest on that sum to the relevantparty in accordance with the final order of theHigh Court established under Article 154p, theCourt of Appeal or the Supreme Court, as thecase may be..

5. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Industrial Disputes (Amendment)Act, No. 22 of 20225

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.