PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRILANKA

UNIVERSITY OF VOCATIONAL
TECHNOLOGY ACT, No. 31 OF 2008

(Certified on 28th August, 2008]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democrati~
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 29, 2008

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA
TOBE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO §

Price : Rs. 19.00 7 Postage : Rs. 12.


University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(Certified on 28th August, 2008]
L.D.---O. 47/2005

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND

ADMINISTRATION OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VOCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY;

. TOIMPART HIGHER EDUCATION AT UNIVERSITY LEVEL ON VOCATIONAL

TECHNOLOGY ; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO. RY

WHEREAS having regard to the need and the importance of
making available opportunities for achieving. a higher
educational qualification to those in Sri Lanka.who have
acquired Technical and Vocational Education and Training:

AND WHEREAS it has become necessary to ensure that the
higher educational qualification obtained by those who
persue such studies will be a qualification which has
recognition within as well as outside Sri Lanka:

AND WHEREAS at present there exists no institution in
Sri Lanka equipped to provide higher educational
qualifications to those who have acquired Technical and
Vocational Education and Training:
AND WHEREAS it has become a matter of national
importance to establish a University for.the purpose of
granting academic qualifications to those who have aéquired
such Technical and Vocational Education’ and ‘Training:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:-— ™

‘1. This Act may be cited as the University of: Vocational
‘Technology Act, No. 3! of 2008, .and:the-provisions of this
Act other than this section, shall come.imto-operation on
such date as the Minister may appoint:-by Order published
in the Gazette ( hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
date”). The provisioris of this:seetion shall come in to
‘Operation on the date on which this.Act becomes an Act of
Parliament. a a

2 —PL 002642— 4,250 (11/2007)

Preamble.

Short title and
date of
operation.


Establishment of
the University of
Vocational
Technology.

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

PARTI

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE UNIVERSITY OF VOCATIONAL TECHNOLOGY

2.

(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the

Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, there shall be established a
University called the University of Vacational Technology
(hereinafter referred to as the “University”.

(2) The University shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal, and in the name
assigned to the University by subsection (1). have full
power to— .

(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)

sue and to be sued in all courts ;
alter the seal at its pleasure :

acquire by way of purchase or otherwise both
movable and immovable property and to take, accept
and hold any such property which may become
vested in it by virtue of any such purchase or any
grant or donation. lease, testamentary disposition
or otherwise ;

sell, hypothecate, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of any property acquired by it :

Provided however, that any sale, hypothecatian,
lease, exchange or other disposition of any such
property shalt be invalid, if the same is made in
contravention of any restriction. condition or
prohibition imposed by law or by any appropriate
Instrument or Order, by which any such property
was vested in the University ; and

exercise, perform and discharge such powers, dutics
and functions as are conferred or imposed on or
fissigned to the University by this Act.


University of Vocational Technology 3
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(3) The powers, duties and functions conferred, imposed
or assigned to the University shall, unless otherwise expressly
provided for by this Act, be exercised by the Board.

3.

The seal of the University shall be in the custody of

the Director-General of the University and shall not be affixed
to any instrument or document except in his presence or in
the presence of any other officer assigned by the Vice-
ChancelJor, and the Director-General or such other officer,
as the case may be, shall sign such instrument or document in
token of his presence.

PART I

OBIECTS AND POWERS OF THE UNIVERSITY

4. The objects of the University shall be to—

(ct)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

assist in the progressive development of students in
technical and vocational education and training
system, based on their aptitudes and abilities to
acquire a university education ;

provide pedagogical training for those undergoing
training while serving in the technical and
vocational education sector and industry ;

assist in the development of course curricula for
technical and vocational education and training ;

provide courses of study for middle level technical
personnel having qualifications acceptable for
admission to the University ;

provide courses of study for those with National
Vocational Qualifications to upgrade their
competency and acquire academic qualifications ;
provide extension courses on continuous
professional development ; and

provide extension services to the public including
institutions, in the construction, manufacturing and
service sectors. - ~

Seal of the
University,

Objects of the
University.


University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

Powers of the 5.’: The University shall subject to the provisions of this

University.

(a)

Act, have the power to—

admit students and provide instructions in any
approved branch of technical and vocational education

and training as the University may determine ;

(b)
(c)
(d)

(e)

make available opportunities for research and for

‘the advancement and dissemination of knowledge ;

hold examinations and assess student performance ;

grant and confer degrees and other academic
distinctions in conformity with any Statute made
for the purpose ;

establish specialized institutes or schools ;

co-operate by way of exchange of teachers, students
and scholars or otherwise with other institutions in
Sri Lanka or institutions abroad, having objects or
interests similar to or substantially similar to those

7 ‘of the University ;

make arrangements for the conduct of examinations

-for enabling those not instructed at the University

..;, to.obtain degrees, diplomas and certificates from

the University and to determine the courses of

‘instruction for such examinations ;

provide facilities for higher education to persons

_ employed by the University ;

confer honorary degrees or other distinctions on

"persons approved by the Academic Council and the

Board, in conformity with any Statue made for the
purpose;

)’ recognize examinations passed and periods of

learning pursuéd at any University established or
deemed to be established under the Universities Act,


University of Vocational Technalogy 5
Act, No. 31 of 2008

No: 16 of 1978 and any higher educational

institutions and-technical and vocational or
' professional institutions of the State, within
Sri Lanka, for the purpose of admitting students to
the University, as approved by the Admission,

Accreditation and Quality Assurance Council and
the Academic Council;

 & erect, equip and maintain for the purposes of the
, University, libraries, laboratories and other
’ buildings for instructional purposes «

3) ‘institute Senior Professorships, Professorships,
Associate Professorships, Senior ‘Lectureships,
Lectureships, Assistant Lectureships and other non-

- academic posts, as may be required for the purposes
: of the University +

(im) institute and award fellowships, scholarships,
exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes in
conformity with any Statute made for the purpose ;

(n) charge fees for any extension services provided to
the public or any institution, as the case may be.
' and disburse the income so generated for the
"attainment of the objects of the University. in such
manner as shal! be prescribed by any Ordinance ;

and

(a) do all such other acts or things as may be necessary
for effectively exercising any of the powers conferred

-. by this-Act and for the attainment of the objects

. © specified in section 4.

PART I!
_ Powers OF THE MINISTER
6 (4) The Minister shall be responsible for the general Responsibility

direction and administration of this Act. and powers of
: the Minister.



wWwhoiea

sition prevails
vtush as likely

vbdanger

national security

Mieousures 10 be

heen by the

Nirneser in the

veat ofa

ime hOUL ele,

6. Univexsity. of Vocational. Technology.
Act,.\Na. 31 af 2008

isG2) dn, AWfilling:his responsibility: under. subsection (1),

the Minister may: from time. to. time issue to the Board such

writtea- directions.as he may ¢qnsider necessary, in,regard to

matters such,.as finance and medium of Instruction. Every

waiter direction issued under this subsection shall, be tabled
p, Parliament within three months of the date of i its issue.

(3) It shall be the duty af the Board to. comply with all
directions issued by the Minister under subsection (2).

“@. The ‘Minister. may ‘from time to time for the purpose
of effectively fulfilling his responsibilities relating to the
administration of this Act,’ order all or any of thé activities
pertaining. to. the administration of the University to be
investigated and reported upon, by the Board. _

(5) Upon receipe of the.report of -the Board in compliance
with an order made under subsection. (4), the-Minister shall
direct the Board to take such remedial action as he may
consider necessary, with reference to the activity or the
adihinistration of the: University’ pertaining: to which the
investigation: under sabsection 4{4)- was’ carried out.

"Ht, ape teh?

“7. Where the Minigter i is of the view that any situation
prevailing, in the. Uniyersity is likely to endanger national
sgousity, or. 1s detrimental, OF, prejudicial to national policy
University, | he may. direct the Board’ to take all such steps
as he may deem ecessary, to bring such situation under

Abt
control.

8. (1) Where the Minister is of the view that due to
any: ‘Strikey lodkdut:or any. other cause, the! work or
administration. of the University has: been. seriously
distupted and that the-different authorities of the
University have failed to restore normal. canditions, he
may take all such measures as may be necessary to ensure
the restoration of normalcy:.Pending the restoration of
normalcy, the Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette, make such provisions-as he may deem necessary
in respect of all or any of the following matters :-

: . if fe

(a) “the closure of University ee

L alge.


University of Vocational Technology 7
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(6) the appointment of any person by name or by office
to be a competent authority for the purpose of
exercising, performing or discharging, any power,
duty or functions under this Act or under any
appropriate Instrument, in lieu of any Officer,
Authority or other body of the University ; and

(c) any other matter connectéd with or relating to any
_ Of the matters aforesaid.

(2) An Order made by the Minister under subsection (1)
shall-come into force on such date as may be specified therein,
and shall .within one month of the Gazetting, be tabled in

Parliament. The Order shall unless earlier rescinded, remain

in force for a period not exceeding three months thereafter.

9, (1) The University shall before the expiry of a period

_ Of six months after the closure of each financial year, submit

to the Minister a report containing a full account of its activities
during that year. The Minister shall cause copies thereof to
be tabled in Parliament.

(2) The University shall cause copies of the report submitted
under subsection (1) to be made available to the public, on
the-payment of a fee to be determined by the University.

PART IV
‘CHANCELLOR AND OFFICERS OF THE UNTVERSITY

- 10. (1) The President shall nominate the Chancellor of

‘the University. The Chancellor shall be the Head of.the
- University and shall hold: office for a period. of five years
: from the date of such nomination.

(2) The Chancellor nominated under sihsection(y shall,
when present, preside at each Convocation of the University.

3)’ The Officers of the University shalt be as. follows :—
‘ (a) the Vice Chancellor : *°

(b) the Dean'‘of each Faculty ;

Annual Report

' of the

University.

Chancellor and
the officers of
the University.


The
Vice-Chancellor.

8 University af Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(c) the Director-General of the University ;
(d)_ the Director, Media and Information Services ;
(e) the Director, Finance ;

(f) the Director, Admission, Accreditation and Quality
Assurance ; and

(g) any person holding a post declared by Statute to be
that of an Officer.

11. (1) The Vice-Chancellor of the University shall be
appointed by the President in consultation with the Minister,
from and out of a panel of three persons nominated by the
Board.

(2) The panel of three persons shall be selected from
amongst those who have academic qualifications, knowledge
and experience in the fteld of construction or manufacturing
or any other field of technology or service sector.

(3) A person shall not be appointed as a Vice-Chancellor.
for more than two consecutive terms of office.

(4) The Vice-Chancellor shall be a full-time officer of the
University and shall be the principal executive officer
and the principal academic officer thereof. He shall be an
ex-officio member and Chairman of both the Board and of
the Academic Council. The Vice-Chancellor shall be entitled
to convene, be present and speak at any meeting of any other
Authority of the University or other body as may be
prescribed by Ordinance, but shal! not be entitled to vote at
any such meeting, unless he is a member of such other
Authority or other body.

(5) It shall be the duty of the Vice-Chancellor in accordance
with such directions as may from time to time be lawfully
issued to him in that behalf by the Board, to ensure that the
provisions of this Act and of any appropriate Instrument are
duly observed, and he shall have and may exercise all such
powers as he‘may deem necessary for the purpose.


University of Vocational Technology - 9
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(6) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the duty
of the Vice-Chancellor to give effect to and ensure that effect
is given to the decisions of the Board and of the Academic
Council.

(7) The Vice-Chancellor shall be the Accounting Officer
of the University and shall be responsible for the maintenance
of discipline within the University.

(8) The Vice-Chancellor shall, unless he vacates office
earlier or is removed from office under subsection (9) of this
section, hold office for a term of four years or until he has
completed his sixty fifth year, whichever event occurs eatlier.

(9) The Vice-Chancellor may for reasons assigned, be
removed from office by the President.

(10) Where the Vice-Chancellor by reason of leave, illness,
absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the President shall
within seven days of the occurrence of such inability, make
such arrangements as he may think fit for carrying-on the
duties of the Office. Until such arrangements are made, the
Director General of the University shall carry out the routine
duties of the Office of the Vice-Chancellor.

(11) Where any vacancy occurs in the Office of the Vice-
Chancellor, the President may within seven days of the
occurrence of such vacancy, make such arrangement ‘as he
may think fit, for carrying on the duties of the Office until a
permanent appointment is made. Until such arrangements
are made, the Director-General of the University shall carry
out the routine duties of the Office.

12. (1) There shall be a Dean of each Faculty who shall
be the academic and administrative Head of that Faculty.
The Dean shall be elected by the Faculty from among the
Senior Professors, Professors, Associate Professors and Senior
Lecturers who are members of such Faculty.

The Dean of a
Faculty.


The Director-
General.

10 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(2) The Dean shall subject to the provisions of any
appropriate Instrument, hold office for a period of three years
reckoned from the date of his election and shall, unless
disqualified from holding such office, be eligible for re-
election, for a further period of three years.

(3) The Dean of a Faculty who ts disqualified ‘from
continuing to function as an Officer of the University under
section 55 of this Act. shall be removed from such office.

(4) Where owing to leave of absence, iiness or other
cause, the Dean of a Faculty is temporarily unable to
perform the duties of his office for a period not exceeding
three months, the Vice-Chancellor shall appoint a Senior
Professor, Professor, Associate Professor or Senior
Lecturer of that Faculty, to act in the post of Dean for
such period.

(5) Where a Dean of a Faculty is removed, retires,
resigns, or is for any other reason unable to ‘perform the
duties of his office for a period exceeding three months,
the post of Dean of that Faculty shall be deemed to have
become vacant, and a new Dean shall be elected in
accordance with the provisions of subsection. (1). The
person so elected shall hold office for the un-expired part
of the term of office of his predecessor.

13. (1) The Director-General of the University, shall be
appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of a
Selection Committee, the composition of which shall be
prescribed by Ordinance, and shail function as a full-time
Officer of the University. The Director-General shall also be
the Assistant Accounting Officer of the University.

(2) The Director-General shali—.,

(a) subject to the direction and control of the Vice-
Chancellor, be responsible for the general
administration of the University and the

- disciplinary control of its non-academic staff ;



(b)

©

14.

University of Vocational Technology 11
Act, No. 31 of 2008

be responsible for the custody of the records and the
property of the University ; and ,

exercise, perform and discharge such powers, duties
and functions as may be conferred or imposed on or
assigned to him by this. Act or by any appropriate
Instrument.

(1) The Director, Media and Information Services of

the University shall be appoihted by the Board upon the
recommendation of a Selection Committee, the composition
of which shall be prescribed by Ordinance, and shall function
as a full-time Officer of the University.

(2) The Director, Media and Information Services shall—

(a)

(b)

15.

subject to the direction and control of the Vice-
Chancellor, be responsible for the general
administration of the Media and Information Centre
or Centres of the University ; and

exercise, perform and discharge such powers, duties
and functions as may be conferred or imposed on or
assigned to him by this Act or by any appropriate

‘Instrument.

(i) The Director, Finance of the University, shall be

appointed by the Board upon the recommendation of a
Selection Committee, the composition of which shall be
prescribed by Ordinance, and shall function as a full-time
Officer of the University.

(2) The Director, Finance shall —

(a) subject to the direction and control of the

Director-General, be responsible for the general
administration of the finances of the University
and shail maintain its accounts in such form and
manner as may be prescribed by Ordinance ; and

The Director,
Media and
Information
Services.

The Director,
Finance.


The Director,
Admission,
Accreditation
and Quality
Assurance,

The Authorities

of the
University.

12

(b)

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

exercise, perform and discharge such powers, duties
and functions as may be conferred or imposed on or
assigned to him by this Act or by any appropriate
Instrument.

(3) The Director, Finance shall have the custody of all the
funds of the University.

16.

(1) The Director, Admission, Accreditation and

Quality Assurance of the University, shall be appointed by
the Board upon the recommendation of a Selection
Committee, the composition of which shall be prescribed by
Ordinance, and shall function as a full-time Officer of the
University.

(2) The Director, Admission, Accreditation and Quality
Assurance shall —

(a) subject to the direction and control of the Vice
Chancellor, be responsible for the admission criteria
and for ensuring quality assurance of courses and
other supporting services provided by the University
; and

(b) exercise, perform and discharge such powers, duties
and functions as may be conferred or imposed on or
assigned to him by this Act or by any appropriate
Instrument.

PART V
THE AUTHORITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY
17. The Authorities of the University shall be the
following :—
(a)_ the Board of Governors ;
(b) the Admission, Accreditation and Quality Assurance

ca .
Council ;


University of Vocational Technology 13

Act, No. 31 of 2008

(c) . the Academic Council ;

(d)_ the Faculty Boards ; and

(e) such other bodies as may be prescribed by Ordinances
to be Authorities of the University.

18. (1) The Board of Governors of the University (in this
Act referred to as the “Board”) shall consist of—

(a) the following ex-officio members :—

(i)

(ii)

(tii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

the Vice Chancellor ;
the Dean of each Faculty ;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
or any officer nominated by him ;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance or his
nominee ;

the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Higher Education
or bis nominee ;

the Head of the body entrusted with the
responsibility of regulating the activities of
Colleges of Technology ;

the Chairman of the Vocational Training
Authority of Sri Lanka, established by the
Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka
Act, No. 12 of 1995 ; and

The Chairman of the National Apprentice and
Industrial Training Authority, established by
the Tertiary and Vocational Education Act,
No. 20 of 1990 ; and

(b) the following persons appointed by the Minister (in
this section referred to as “appointed members”) :-—

(i)

two members of the Academic Council
nominated by such Council from among its
members?

The Board of
Governors of the
University.


14 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(ii) such number of members as-is equal to the
total number of members referred to in
sub-paragraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), and (v) of

paragraph (a) and sub-paragraph (i) of this
paragraph, increased by one. Four members
out of this number shall be appointed by the
Minister from among persons who have
rendered distinguished services in the
educational, professional commercial,
industrial, scientific or administrative spheres
and shall include one representative each
selected out of not less than two nominations
received from each of the following
organizations :—

(A) _ the Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka ;

(B) the Institution of. Incorporated
Engineers, Sri Lanka ;

(C) the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce ; and
(D) the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka.

(2) The Chairman of the Board shall be the Vice Chancellor
who shall preside at all meetings of the Board. If the Chairman
is. unable to preside at any meeting, the members present
shall elect a member from among themselves to preside at
such meeting. The Director-General of the University shall
function as the Secretary of the Board.

(3) An appointed member of the Board shall, unless he
vacates Office earlier. hold office for a term of three years
reckoned from the date of his appointment, and shall, unless
removed from office, be eligible for re-appointment :

Provided however that if any appointed member vacates
his office prior to the ‘expiry of his term, his successor shall
hold office for the unexpired term of office of the member
whom he succeeds.


University of Vocational Technology 15
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(4) An appointed member of the Board may resign his
office by writing under his hand addressed to the Minister.

(5)An appointed member of the Board who is disqualified
from continuing to be a member of an Authority of the
University under section 55 of this Act, shall be removed
from such office.

(6) An appointed member of the Board who for whatever
reason absents himself from three consecutive meetings of
the Board, shall be deemed to have vacated his office as a
member and the Minister shall, having regard to the provisions

- of paragraph (6) of subsection (1), appoint another person to

fill the resulting vacancy.

(7) An appointed member of the Board may be paid such
allowance as the Minister, in consultation with the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance, shall determine.

(8) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be six
members.

(9) The Board shall meet whenever necessary, provided
that it shall meeet not less than on ten occasions in each year.

(10) The Chairman of the Board shall whenever he thinks
necessary or within one week upon the receipt by him of a
written requisition from not less than one third the total
membership of the Board, convene a Special Meeting of the
Board.

19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board
shall exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and
functions conferred or imposed on or assigned to the
University by this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality .of the powers
conferred upon it by subsection (1), the Board shall exercise,
perform and discharge the following. powers, duties and
functions:—

(i) approve courses of study recommended by the
Academic Council ;

Powers, duties
and functions of
the Board.



16

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

(ix)

(x)

(xi)

(xii)

(xiii)

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

determine from time to time the requirements for
the admission of students to the University, having
considered any recommendations made by the
Admission, Accreditation and Quality Assurance
Council ; ‘

hold, contrat and administer the property and funds
of the University ;

select a coat of arms for the University and determine
its form ;

regulate and determine al! matters concerning the
University in accordance with the provisions of this
Act and of any appropriate Instrument ;

inquire into or investigate from time to time the
financial needs of the University ;

prepare from time to time corporate strategic plans
and corresponding budgets for the University, for
periods not less than three years at a time +

determine from time to time within the overall wage
and salary policies of the Government, the quantum
of remuneration that should be paid to the members
of the staff of the University and other benefits that
the staff is entitled to receive ;

administer any funds placed at the disposal of the
University for specific purposes ;

receive and accept, bequests. donations and grants
of property made.to the University ;

consider the annual report and the annual accounts
of the University and submit such report and
accounts, along with any amendments that it may
consider necessary, to the Minister ,

prepare the budget estimates and the annual
financial appropriations of the University and
submit the same to the Minister ;

make Statutes as and when it seems fit for any matter
in respect of which Statutes are required to be made
under this Act :


(xiv)

(xv)

(xvi)

(xvii)

(xviii)

(xix)

(xx)

University of Vocational Technology 17
Act, No. 31 of 2008

make By-laws in respect of any matter for which
By-laws are authorized to be made under this Act;

provide buildings, premises, furniture, equipment
and other materials needed for the carrying on of
‘the work of the University ;

appraise performance of persons in the staff of
the University ;

appoint examiners, whether from the staff of the
University or from elsewhere, after considering any
recommendations made by the Academic Council,
and determine the fees which may be paid to such
examiners ;

appoint a Board of Welfare which shall include a
representative of the students, for. the promotion of
the general well being of the students of the
University. The composition, powers, duties and
functions of such Board shall be as prescribed by
Ordinance ;

enter into, carry out or cancel contracts on behalf of
the University and invest any moneys belonging
to the University, including any unapplied income
generated by the University, in the purchase of
immovable property in Sri Lanka.or vary such
investments or place in fixed deposits in any bank
approved by the Secretary to the Ministry of the
Minister, any portion of such moneys not.required
for immediate expenditure ;

determine after consultation.with the Academic
Council, the academic dress or insignia or both of
the Vice Chancellor, the Officers, the graduates and
students of the University ;


18

(xxi)

(xxii)

(xxiii)

(xxiv)

(xxv)

* (xxvi)

(xxvil)

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

institute, abolish or suspend Senior Professorships,
Professorships, Associate Professorships, Senior
Lecturerships, Lecturerships and Assistant
Lecturerships, in consultation with the Admission.
Accreditation and Quality Assurance Council :

institute, abolish or suspend any non-academic post
in consultation with the Admission, Accreditation
and Quality Assurance Council ;

decide on the qualifications required for any post
referred to in paragraphs (xxi) and (xxii) in
consultation with the Admission, Accreditation and
Quality Assurance Council ;

establish collaborations and partnerships with
public and private sector, for purpose of achieving
the objects of the University ; :

award fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions,
bursaries, medals: and other prizes, on the
recommendation of the Academic Council ;

establish such number of Faculties on the
recommendations of the Academic Council ; and

exercise all other powers of the University, the
exercise of which is not otherwise provided for in

' this Act or in any appropriate Instrument.

(3) No resolution shall be passed by the Board in relation
to any academic matter, unless the Academic Council has
first been given an opportunity of recording and transmitting
to the Board its opinion thereon.

In this section, “academic matter” means any matter, which
is subject to the control and general direction of the Academic
Council.


University of Vocational Technology 19
Act, No. 31 of 2008

20. (1) The Board may make Ordinances in respect of all
such matters as it may deem necessary to enable it to effectively
exercise, perform and discharge its powers, duties and
functions under this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred by subsection (1), the Board may make Ordinances
in respect of all or any of the following matters:

(a) all matters required to be prescribed by Ordinance
or in respect of which Ordinances are authorized to
be made by the Board under any other provision of
this Act;

(b) the terms and conditions of service of the full time
Officers of the University ;

(c) the terms and conditions of service of the staff of the
University ;

(d¢) the establishment and maintenance of standards of
instruction in the University for the grant of degrees,
diplomas and other academic distinctions ;

(e) the recognition of foreign degrees and diplomas and
other academic distinctions ; and

(f) any other matter connected with or incidental to
any of the matters aforementioned.

(3) Every Ordinance made by the Board under this Act
shall be published in the Gazerte and shall come into
Operation on the date specified therein.

21. (1) The Admission, Accreditation and Quality
Assurance Council of the University (hereinafter referred to
as the “Quality Assurance Council”) shall consist of

(a) the following ex-officio members:—

(i) the Director General of the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission,
established by the Tertiary and Vocational
Education-Act, No. 20 of 1990 ;

Power of the
Board to make
Ordinances.

The Admission,
Accreditation
and Quality
Assurance
Council.


20 University of Vocational Technology

4
(ii)
. (iv)
{v)

Act, No. 31 of 2008
the Dean of each Faculty of the University ;

the Director, Admission, Accreditation and
Quality Assurance Council ; oe

the Director-General of the University ; and
the Head of the body entrusted with the

responsibility of regulating the activities of
Colleges of Technology ; and

(6) the following persons appointed by the Vice

Chancellor (in this section referred to as “appointed
member’):—

(i)

> i)

(tli)

{iv)

an officer of the Ministry of the Minister
nominated by the Secretary to such Ministry ;

two representatives from the Board nominated
by the Board from amongst its appointed

‘members, one of whom at least shall be the

member appointed to represent either the
Institution of Engineers, Sri Lanka or the.
Institution of Incorporated Engineers, Sri
Lanka ;

one representative from Academic Council,
nominated by that Council from among its
members ; and

two directors responsible for the National
Vocational Qualifications and _ for
Accreditation, from the Tertiary and
Vocational Education Commission,
established by the Tertiary and Vocational

Education Act, No. 20 of 1990.

(2)'The Chairman of the Quality Assurance Council shall
‘be the Director-General of the Tertiary and Vocational
Education Commission, who shall preside at all meetings of


University of Vocational Technology 21
Act, No. 31 of 2008

such Council. If the Chairman is unable to preside at any
meeting, the members present shall select a member present
to preside at such meeting.

(3) The Director-General of the University shall be the
Secretary to the Quality Assurance Council.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Quality Assurance
Council shall be one half of its total membership and the
Quality Assurance Council shail meet whenever necessary,
provided that it shall meet on not less than on one occasion
in each year.

(5) An appointed member of the Quality Assurance
Council shall unless he vacates office earlier, hold office for
aterm of four years reckoned from the date of his appointment,
and shail, unless removed from office, be eligible for re-
appointment :

Provided that if any appointed member vacates his office
prior to the expiry of his term, his successor shall hold office
only for the unexpired term of office of the member who he
succeeds,

(6) An appointed member of the Quality Assurance
Council may resign his office by writing under his hand
addressed to the Vice Chancellor.

(7) An appointed member of the Quality Assurance
Council who is disqualified from continuing to be a member
of an Authority of the University under section 55 of this
Act, shall be removed from such office.

(8) An appointed member of the Quality Assurance
Council who for whatever reason absents himself from three
consecutive meetings of the Quality Assurance Council, shall
be deemed to have vacated his office as a member and the
Vice Chancellor shall, having regard to the provisions of
paragraph (4) of subsection (1), appoint another person to fill
the resulting vacancy. -


(ix)

(x)-

(xi)

23.

(a)

University of Veeational Technology 23
Aet, No. 37 af 2008

collaborations to be established with other national
and international higher educational institutions
and professional bodies, to further the objectives of
the University ; Los

the appointment of such number of committees
consisting of its awn members’ and any other
professionals outside its membership, as it may deem
necessary to deliberate and‘ report to it on any
matters pertaining to Its powers, which may be
referred to such committee ; sand

any other matter that may be referred to it ‘by the

Board for its recommendation, © 0 x. oa:

(1) The Academic Council shall consist of: _
the following ex-officio members:—"

(i) the Vice Chancellor; "1 7

(ii) the Dean of each Faculty : H .

’ (iii) every Senior Professor ‘and Professor of the

®

University ; ;

{iv) the Director-General of the University. he

(v) , ‘the Director, Media and Information. Services :
and owt nt ftp GRE

. (vi). the Director, Admission, ‘Accreditation, and

Quality Assurance Council ; and

the following elected and appoinied members —
sorbe af £7)

(i) such number of ‘Associate:Proféssors: and
Senior Lecturers not exceeding : seven
representing each faculty, elécted by' the
permanent. teachers of such.Faculty, from
among their number. ;,

The Academic

Council.

ieee Me

gies


Powers, duties
and fictions of
the Academic
Council.

24 University of Vocational Technology
. Act, No. 31 of 2008

(ti) such number of Lecturers and Assistant
Lecturers as is equal to the total number of
Faculties, elected by the Faculty Board to
represent each of those Faculties ; and

(iii) such number of members as is equal to the
total number of Faculties, appointed by the
Board from among persons who have rendered.
distinguished service in educational,
professional, commercial, industrial, scientific
or administrative spheres, as recommended by
the respective Faculty Boards.

(2) Each member elected or appointed under paragraph
(8) of subsection (1), shali hold office for a period of two
years reckoned from date of his election or appointment, as
the case may be.

(3) The quorum for a meeting of the Academic Council
shall be one third of its total membership.

(4) The Academic Council shall meet whenever necessary,
provided that, it shall meet not less than on ten occasions in
each year.

(5) The Chairman of the Academic Council shall be the
Vice Chancellor who shall preside at all meetings of the
Academic Council. If the Chairman is unable to preside at
any meeting, the members present shall elect a member from
among those present to preside at such meeting.

24, (1) The Academic Council shall be the academic
authority of the University and subject to the provisions of
this Act and of any appropriate Instrument, shall have control
and general direction of the standard of instruction, education,
research and examinations in the University.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powers
conferred upon it by subsection (1), the Academic Council
shalt exercise, perform and discharge the following powers,
duties and fuyctions :-—

(1) draft, where appropriate after considering any
reports submitted by the Faculty or the Faculties


(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

{vi)

(vil)

University of Vocational Technology 25
Act, No. 31 of 2008

concerned, regulations relating to courses of study
and examinations, and to make recommendations
to the Board regarding such courses of study for its
approval ;

recommend to the Board after considering any
reports submitted by the Faculty or Faculties
concerned, the names of persons suitable to be
appointed as examiners ;

evaluate any request made by a Faculty Board on
any proposals relating to the institution, abolition
or suspension of Senior Professorships,
Professorships, Associate Professorships, Senior
Lecturerships, Lecturerships and Assistant
Lecturerships in the University, and make their
recommendations on the same to the Quality
Assurance Council ;

recommend to the Board after considering any
reports submitted by the Faculty or the Faculties
concerned :—

(a) onschemes for the re-organization of existing
Faculties ; and

(b) on the assignment of subjects of study to the
respective Faculties ;

recommend to the Board the mode and conditions
of competition for fellowships, scholarships,
exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other prizes ;

recommend to the Board on the award of
fellowships, scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries,
medals and other prizes ;

appoint such number of Standing Committees, or
ad hoc Committees or Boards from and out of the
members of the Academic Council as it may deem
fit, and in particular, the following :~

“

(a) Media and Information Services Committe ;


26 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 37 af 2008

(6) Research Committee ;
(c)_ Industry-University Partnership Committee ;
(d) Curriculum and Evatuation Committee ; and

(e) Leave and Awards Committee ;

(viii) specify the terms of reference of the Committees
and Boards appointed under paragraph (vii) and to
either approve the reports submitted by any such
Committee or Board with or without modification,
or to reject such reports ; '

(ix) refer to the Quality Assurance Council any proposals

“made by a Faculty Board relating to’the admission

of students to any courses of study, along with their
observations on the same ; and

—

recommend to the Board from time to time,

regarding the establishment of such Faculties as it
may deem necessary for developing its teaching,
research and extension programmes.

(x

The Faculty 25. (4) The Faculty Board of each Faculty of the
Board. University shall consist of the following persons : —

(a) the Dean of the Faculty ; ;

(6) all Senior Professors, Professors, Associate
Professors, Senior Lecturers and Lecturers of the
Faculty ;

(c) . the Director, Admission, Accreditation and Quality
Assurance Council or his nominee ;

(d) the Director, Media and Information Services or his
nominee ;

(e) two members of the permanent staff imparting
instructions in the Faculty, excluding those referred
to in paragraph (b), elected by themselves from
among those in the permanent staff ;


University of Vocational Technology 27
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(f) two students elected by the students of the Faculty
from among their number ; and

(g) not more than five persons not being members of
the staff of the University, elected by the Faculty
_ from among persons of eminence from the industry,

in the areas of study relevant to the Faculty.

(2) The members elected under paragraph (f) of subsection
(1) shall hold office as a member for a period of one year, and
alf other elected members shall hold office for a period of
three years, reckoned from the date of his election.

(3) The Chairman of the Faculty Board shall be the Dean
of the Faculty who shall preside at all meetings of the Faculty
Board. Where the Dean of the Faculty is unable to preside at
any such meeting, the members present shall elect a member
present, other than a member elected under paragraph (/) of
subsection (1), to preside at such meeting.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Faculty Board shall
be one half of its total membership and it shall meet whenever
necessary, provided that it shall meet not less than on ten
occasions in each year.

26. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, a Faculty
Board shall exercise, perform and discharge the following
powers, duties and functions :—

(i} consider and report on-any matter referred to it by
the Academic Council;

(ii) subject to the control of the Academic Council,
regulate matters connected with teaching,
examinations and research in the various branches
of technical and vocational education and training ;

(iii) present recommendations and reports to the Academic
Council on all matters connected with the courses of
study and examinations in the Faculty ;

Powers duties
and function of
the Faculty
Board.


Holding of the

Convocation of

the University.

28 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

{iv) appoint committees. which may include persons
other than members of the Faculty, for the purpose
of considering and reporting on any Special subject
or subjects ; and

(v) recommend to the Academic Council names of
persons suitable to be appointed as examiners.

(2) The members elected under paragraph (f) of
subsection (1) of section 25 shall be excluded from any
meeting of the Faculty relating to examinations and
connected matters, and any such meeting shall,
notwithstanding such exclusion be deemed to have been
duly held.

PART VI
CONVOCATION OF THE UNIVERSITY

27. (1) The University shall for the purpose of
conferring degrees, hold a Convocation once in every year
on such date or dates as may be approved by the
Chancellor :

Provided that the University may hold a Special
Convocation at any ‘other time, as the Chancellor may
determine.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),
first degrees may be conférred without the holding of a
Convocation.

(3) The procedure for the hoiding of a Convocation shall
be prescribed by By-Law.

(4), The President shall when present, preside at a
Convocation. In the absence of the President, the Chancellor
shall preside at such Convocation and in the absence of both
the President and the Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor shall
preside. a


University of Vocational Technology 29
Act, No. 31 of 2008

- PART VII
STAFE OF THE University

28. Every appointment to the staff of the University shall
be made by the Board in accordance with such schemes of
recruitment and procedures, as prescribed by Ordinance for
the same.

29. The qualifications of all teachers of the University
shall be determined by the Board in consultation with the
Quality Assurance Council, while qualifications of all
non-academic staff shal! be determined by the Board, where
it considers necessary, in consultation with the Quality
Assurance Council.

30. (1) It shall be the duty of each Faculty Board to
make written proposals to the Academic Council relating to
the institution, abotitiun and suspension of posts of teachers
required for such Faculty. The Academic Council shall
consider and evaluate such proposals and thereafter make its
recommendations to the Board.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Director-General of the
University to make recommendations to the Board relating
to the institution, abolition and suspension of aff non-
academic posts in the University. :.

(3) The Board may where it considers it appropriate, prior
to institution, abolition or suspension of any post of a teacher
or of any non-academic post in the University, obtain the

advice of the Quality Assurance Council regarding the same.

34. (1) Every appointment to a post of a teacher shall in

the first instance be for a probationary period of three years,

. which period may be extended by the Board by one year at a

time, for a further period not exceeding three years. At the

end of the probationary period, the. appointment may, be

confirmed in accordance with the requirements or conditions

as to confirmation, provided for in the appropriate schemes
of recruitment as prescribed by Ordinance.

Board 10 appuint
staff of the
University.

Determination of
qualifications of
statf of the
University.

Institution.
abolition and
suspension of
posts in the staff
of the
University.

Probationary
periods and
confirmation.


Retirement of ~

teachers and
persons holding
a non-academic
post.

30 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(2) Every appointment to a non-academic post shall in the
first instance, be for a probationary period of three years and
such appointment may thereafter be confirmed in accordance
with the confirmation criteria as prescribed by Ordinance.

32. (1): The holder of a post of teacher who has been
confirmed in his post, shall hold such post until he has
completed sixty years of age or if the completes sixty years
of age in the course of an academic year, until the last day of
such academic year, and shall thereafter be deemed to have
retired from service:

Provided that the holder of such post may at any time
pending an inquiry by the Board, be suspended for
misconduct, inefficiency ur dereliction of duty and may be
dismissed or compulsorily retired if found guilty after such
inquiry, on a resolution adopted by such Board.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a
teacher who has reached sixty years of age and who is in the
opinion of the Board competent to continue to hold such
post, may be recruited on a contract basis to serve as a teacher
for a period of one year. The period of service however may
be extended further by one year each at a time, until he
completes sixty-five years of age.

(3) Public Administration Circulars relating to the age of
retirement of public officers shall be applicable in regard to
the age of retirement of those holding any non-academic in
the University :

Provided that the holder of any such post may at any time
pending an inquiry by the Board, be suspended for
misconduct, inefficiency or dereliction of duty and may be
dismissed or compulsorily retired if found guilty after such
inquiry, on a resolution adopted by the Board.


University of Vocational Technology 31
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(4) Where before completing the probationary period
referred to in section 31, a person holding—

(a) the post of a teacher, reach the age of sixty years ; or

(6) ‘a non-academic post, reach the age of retirement
specified in the Public Administration Circular
referred to in subsection (3),

such person shall be deemed to have retired from service
from the date on which he reached that age.

(5) Every holder of a post in the University who is
dismissed or is compulsorily retired from his post or ts
otherwise punished for misconduct, inefficiency or
dereliction of duty, may appeal against such dismissal or
retirement or other punishment, to the University Appeals
Board.

33. (1) At the request of the Board, an officer in the
public service may with the consent of that officer, the
Secretary to the Ministry by or under which that officer is
employed, the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Public Administration and the Public
Service Commission, be temporarily appointed to the post of
a teacher of the University, for such periods as may be
determined by the Board with like consent, or with like
consent be permanently appointed as a teacher.

(2) The provisions of subsection (2) of section 14 of the
National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall
autatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to any officer in
the public service who is temporarily appointed to the post
of a teacher of the University and the provisions of subsection
(3) of section 14 of that Act shall, mutatis murandis apply to
and in relation to any officer in the public service who is
permanently appointed to the post of a teacher of the
University. cf

Appointment of
public officers
to the staff of the
University.


Appointment of
teachers of
Higher
Educational
Institutions to the
staff of the
University.

Appointment of
the Panel of
inquiry and
Investingation.

32 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(3) Where the University employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the University by that person shall be
regarded as service to the Government for the purpose of
discharging the obligations of such contract.

34. Atthe request of the Board any teacher in the service
of any Higher Educational Institution established under the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978, may with the consent of
such teacher, the University Grants Commission and the
governing authority of that Institution, be temporarily
appointed to the post of a teacher of the University for such
period as may be determined by the Board with like consent,
or with like consent be permanently appointed to such post,
on such terms and conditions as may be agreed upon by the
Board and such Higher Educational Institution and he shall
be subject to the same disciplinary control as any other teacher
in the staff of the University.

PART VII .
Unrversiry Apreacs BoaRD

35. (1) The Minister shall from time to time appoint
from among persons who have knowledge and experience in
the field of construction, manufacturing, academic,
administration, finance, legal or service sectors, a Panel of
Inquiry and Investigation consisting of not less than nine
persons.

(2) A person appointed as a member of the Panel of Inquiry
and Investigation shall hold office for a period of five years
from the date of appointment and unless removed from office,
be eligible for re-appointment.

(3) A member of the Panel of Inquiry and Investigation

may resign from his office by writing addressed to the Minister.



University of Vocational Technology 33
Act, No. 31 of 2008

36: (1} Where——

(a) any appeal is made by any member of the staff of the

‘University against an appointment, promotion,
dismissal, suspension, disciplinary action taken
‘against him or any salary anomaly ; or

(b) any investigation is required to be made into any
matter pertaining to the functions of the University,

the Board shall- constitute a University Appeals Board
consisting of three members, selected from and out of the
persons appointed to the Panel of Inquiry and Investigation
by the Minister under section 35, to inquire into such appeal
or to conduct such investigation, as the case may be.

(2) The members of the University Appeals Board shall
elect from among themselves one of its members to be the
Chairman of such Board.

(3) The procedure for the conduct of the proceedings ofa
University Appeals Board shall be determined by the
Board by Rules made in that behalf.

(4) At the conclusion of an inquiry into an appeal or the
conduct of the investigation, as the case may be, it shall be
the duty of the Chairman of the University Appeals Board to
convey to the Board; its decision and the reasons therefor,
along with a report on such appeal or investigation. Further,
a copy of the decision and of the reasons shall also be
sent through registered post to the person who preferred
the appeal, within one week of reaching such decision.

(5) The members of the University Appeals Board shall in
respect of each appeal inquired into or investigation
conducted by them, be paid such allowance as the Minister
shall determine in consultation with the Minister in charge
of the subject of Finance. , :

Constitution
of the
University
Appeals
Board.


Appeal from the
decision of a
University
Appeals Board.

Expenses
incurred in any
suit or
prosecution lo be
paid out of the
Fund.

The University
Fund.

34 " University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 3] of 2008

37. A person aggrieved by the decision of a University
Appeals Board in respect of any appeal made under paragraph
(a) of subsection (1) of section 36, may appeal against such
decision to the Court of Appeal within fourteen days of the
date on which the decision and the reasons therefor were sent
to that person by registered post, under subsection (4) of
section 36.

38. (1) Any expense incurred by a University Appeals
Board in any suit or or prosecution brought by or against
such University Appeals Board before any court shall be
paid out of the University Fund, and any costs posts paid to,
or recovered by a University Appeals Board in any such suit
or prosecution, shall be credited to that Fund.

(2) Any expense incurred by a member of a University
Appeals Board in any suit or prosecution brought against
him before any court in respect of any act which is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or any appropriate
Instrument, shail, if the court holds that the act was done in
good faith, be paid out of the Fund of the University, unless
such expense is recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

PART IX
FINANCE

39. (i) The University shall have its own Fund into
which shall be credited—

(a) all moneys provided for its use by Parliament under
sections 40 and 46 ;

(b) all such sum of money as may be received by the
University by way of donations or grants from any
source whatsoever ;

(c) fees paid to the University in accordance with the
provisions of any By-Laws ; and

(d) any other payments required to be made to the
University in accordance with any rule or regulation
made under this Act.


University of Vocational Technology 35
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the University
all such sums of money as are required to defray all
expenditure incurred by the University.in the exercise of its
powers under this Act:

40. The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall as soon
as may be practicable after the commencement of each
financial year, pay to the University such sums of money as
may be provided for by Parliament by way of annual
appropriation, supplementary vote or otherwise, as a grant in
aid of the University.

41. The budget estimates and the annual financial
appropriations of the University prepared with the
assistance given by the Director, Finance under paragraph
(d) of section 42, shall be considered by the Board before
such date as may be prescribed by By-Law. The Board may
make such alterations in such estimates and financial
appropriations as it thinks fit, and shall submit them to
the Minister together with the accounts of the University

for the completed financial year and the Minister may, .

where he considers it necessary, amend any such estimates
and financial appropriations.

42. It shall be the duty of the Director, Finance of the
University to-

(a) keep the accounts of the University in such form
and in such manner as may be prescribed by rules ;

(b) receive all moneys paid into the Fund of the
University and to credit such moneys to the proper
heads of accounts;

{c) make all authorized payments ;

(d) assist the Board in the preparation of budget
estimates and the annual financial appropriations
of thé University ; and

(e) prepare any supplementary estimates under section
46 of this Act, where necessary. :

Grants in aid of
the University.

Board to
consider budget
estimates and
annual financial
appropriations.

Duties of

' Director,

Finance.


jncome from
grants for
specifte purposes
to be separately
accounted for.

The Board to
adopt budget
estimates and
annual financial
appropriations.

Transfer of
Funds from one
vote to another.

Supplementary
estimates.

Financial year
and audit of
accounts.

36 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

43. The income-derived by the University from grants
made for specific purposes or from endowments for specific
objects, shall be separately accounted for in the accounts of
the University and no payment shall be made from such
income for the general purposes of the University or for any
purposes or objects other than those for which such grants or
endowments were made.

44. The Board shall by resolution adopt the budget
estimates, annual financial appropriations and annual
accounts of the University: prior to the submission of the
same to the Minister under section 41.

45. It shall be lawful for the Board in case of
necessity, to transfer funds from one vote to another of
the annual estimates, subject to the approval in writing of
the Treasury.

46. (1) In case of necessity and in order to meet any
unforeseen expenditure, it shall be lawful at any time for
Director, Finance, to prepare supplementary estimates of
expenditure.

(2) Financial liability of a recurrent nature shall not be
incurred without the prior approval of the Minister given
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.

(3) The supplementary: estimates prepared under
subsection (1) shall be submitted to the Board for its
adoption and once adopted shall be made available to the
Minister together with the annual appropriation for the
succeeding year.

47. (1) The financial year of the University shall be
the calendar year.

(2) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to and in respect of the audit of accounts of
the University.


University of Vocational Technology 37
Act, No. 31 of 2008

48. The accounts of the University for each financial
year, when audited, shall be published in the Gazette.

49. (t) The University shall within three months of the
receipt of the Auditor-General’s report in respect of each
financial year, transmit to the Minister such report with any
comments made thereon by the Board, together with the
statement of accounts to which such report relate.

(2) The Minister shall cause copies of all the documents
transmitted to him under subsection (1) to be tabled in
Parliament before the end of the year next succeeding the
year to which such accounts and report relate. The Vice-
Chancellor of the University sha!l attend and answer any
questions arising therefrom before the Public Accounts
Committee of Parliament. ,

PART X
STUDENTS ASSEMBLY AND OTHER ASSOCIATIONS

50. (1) The University shall have a Student Assembly
consisting of student representatives elected from among
persons who are for the time being students of the University.

(2) Every election to the Student Assembly shall be
conducted by secret ballot at the commencement of each
academic year, by such person or persons as may be nominated
by the Vice-Chancellor.

(3) The term of office of the members of the Student
-Assembly shall expire at the end of the academic year in
which the Student Assembly was elected.

$1. (1) The Board may recognize any society or other
association of students established for the sole purpose of
furthering academic or social objectives and which will carry
on such activities or functions as may be specified by the
Board by By-Laws made jn that behalf.

Publication of
audited accounts.

Annual accounts
and Auditor-
General's report
lo be transmitted
to Minister.

Student
Assembly.

Recognition of
certain Socicties
and other —
associations.


Board to allocate
money to
Student
Assembly etc,
for approved
activity.

Board to
prescribe
constitution,
duties and
functions of the
Student
Assembly.

38 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(2) The membership of any society. or other association
established under subsection (1). shalt consists entirely of
students of the University.

(3) Subject to the provision of section 53, the ‘Board may
specify by By-Law, the mode of registration of societies and
other associations recognized under subsection (1), their
functions, the mode of conducting elections for the
appointment of their office-bearers, and the duties and
functions of such office-bearers. ee

52. The Board may from time to time allocate to
the Student Assembly or to any society or other
association recognized under section 51, such sums of money
as may be deemed necessary by the Board, for approved
activities. oe

53. The Board shall by Ordinance prescribe—
(a) the duties and functions.of the Student Assembly ;

(b) the office bearers of the Student Assembly and
the number of student representatives constituting
the Student Assembly and their mode of
election,

(c) the duties and functions of the office bearers: of
the Student Assembly ;

(d) the Standing Committee or Committees which a
Student Assembly may appoint and the duties and
functions of such Committee or Committees ;

(e) the purpose or the purposes for which the funds
allocated to the Student Assembly and to any
society or other association recognized by the
Boatd under section 51 shall be utilized; and


University of Vocational Technology 39
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(f) the form and the manner in which the accounts of
the Student Assembly and any society or other
association shall be maintained and audited.

54. (1) Where the Student Assembly or any society or
other association conducts itself in a manner which in the
opinion of the Vice-Chancellor is detrimental or prejudicial
to'the good name of the University or acts in contravention
of any provision of this Act or any appropriate Instrument,
the Vice-Chancellor may suspend or dissolve such Student
Assembly, society or other association, as the case may be.

(2) Where the Student Assembly has been dissolved under
subsection (1), the Vice-Chancellor may subject to the
provisions of section 50, fix a date for the purpose of electing
anew Student Assembly. Such new Student Assembly shall
hold office until the end of the academic year in which it was
elected.

PART XI

GENERAL PROVISIONS
' §§. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
to or continuing asa.member of any Authority of the
University or as an Officer of the University, where he—

@ is an.undischarged bankrupt or is insolvent ;

& is convicted of any offence involving ‘moral
turpitude ;

{c) is under.any law in force in Sri Lanka or any other
country, found or declared to be of unsound mind ;

(d) directly or indirectly by himself or by any person
~onhis behalf or for his use or benefit holds or enjoys
any right or benefit under any contract, other than
his contract of employment, made by or on behalf

of the University ;

Suspension or
dissolution of
student
Assembly,
society or other
assoctation.

Disqualification
from being
mémbers of any
Authority of the
University.


Officers and
servanls of the
University
deemed to be
public servants
under the Penal
Code.

University
deemed to be a
Scheduled
institution within
the meaning of
the Bribery Act.

Prohibition of
undesirable
persons from
entering
precincts,

40 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(e) is or becomes a Member of Parliament or a member of
a Provincial Council or a local authority ;

(f) had been removed from the membership of any
Authority or from any Office of the University, for
misconduct ;

(g) ‘is found to be unfit to continue to be a member of an
' Authority or continue to hold Office, by reason of
illhealth or physical or mental infirmity ;

(hk) is found guilty of misconduct or corruption ; or
({) is found guilty of gross abuse of power of his Office.

56. All officers and members of the staff of the University
shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning
and for the purposes of the Penal Code.

57. The University shall be deemed to be a Scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and
provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly:

58. (1) Where the presence of any person within the
University, other than of any Officer, member of the staff or a
student of the University, is in the opinion of the Vice
Chancellor not conducive to the welfare of the University or
its students, the Vice-Chancellor may after giving such person
an opportunity of being heard and with the consent of the
Board, serve on such person by writing under his hand, a notice
prohibiting such person from entering or remaining within the
precincts of the University or within such part thereof as may
be specified in such notice. Such prohibition shall remain in
force until revoked by the Board.


University of Vocational Technology 4i
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(2) A certificate under the hand of the Vice-Chancellor to
the effect that any person named in the certificate has been
prohibited, in accordance with the provisions of subsection
(1); from entering or remaining in the precincts of the
University or any part thereof, shall be received and accepted
by any court as evidence of the facts stated in such certificate,
until the contrary is proved.

(3) A document purporting to be a certificate issued by
the Vice-Chancellor and signed by him shall be received in
evidence and shall, until the contrary is proved. be deemed
to be a certificate issued by the Vice Chancellor under
subsection (2).

(4) Any person who is prohibited under the provisions of
subsection (1) from entering or remaining within the
University precincts or part thereof and who without
reasonable cause, enters or remains within such precincts or
part thereof in contravention of such prohibition, shall: be
guilty of an offence and shal} on conviction after summary
trail by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of one thousand
rupees in respect of each day or part thereof on which he
has entered or during which he has remained, within such
precincts or part thereof. -

(5) An offence under subsection (4) shall be a
cognizable and a bailable offence within the meaning of
the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. No. 15 of £979,

59. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, Statutes
may be made by the Board in respect of all or any of the
following matters:—

{a) where not otherwise provided for, the filling of
vacancies in and the convening of any Authority
of the University ;

(6) the determination of the degrees and other academic
distinctions to be cofferred :

Statutes.


By-Laws.

42

 ()

(e}

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

the conferment of honorary degrees or other
distinctions ;

the institution and award of fellowships,
scholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals and other
prizes for which funds or property may in any manner
whatsoever be provided ; and

all matters for which under the provisions of this
Act, Statutes are authorized or requiréd to be made.

(2) Every Statute made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come ‘into force on the
date of such Gazetting or on such other date as may be

60.

_ Specified therein.

(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, By-Laws
. may be made by the Board in réspect of all or "any of the

following Matters :—

(ct)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

the courses of study approved by the Board for the
grant of degrees, diplomas and other academic
distinctions ;

the conditions subject to.which students shall be
admitted to courses of study and examinations
prescribed for.degrees, diplomas and other academic
distinctions ;

the fees to be charged for courses of study,
examinations and award of degrees and other
academic distinctions ;

all matters connected with the election’ of
representatives to the various Authorities and other
bodies of the University

the conditions and mode of appointment of
examiners, their duties, the fees to be paid to them
and the conduct and maintenance of standards at

‘examinations ; and


University of Vocational Technology, 43
Act, ‘No, 31 of 2008

(f) all matters for which under:the provisions of this Act,
By-Laws are authorized or required to be made.

(2) A By-Law in respect of any matter relating to or
connected with teaching. or the examinations of ‘the
University shall not be made by the Board, until a draft of
such By-law has first been prepared and submitted to the
Board by the Acadeinic Council. _

(3) Every By-Law made by the Board shall come into
force on such date as shall be specified therein.

:, GL. .(1); Subject to the provisions of this Act, regulations
may be made by the Academic Council in regard to any matter
pertaining to the exercise, performance and discharge of its
powers, duties and functions under this Act..

(2) All regulations made under subsection (1). shall come

into foree on such Gate as Shall be Specified therein:
; : a

62. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an Authority

Of the University may make rules i in Tespect of all matters :—

fa), for which rules are required to be made under the
provisions of this Act: and,

‘'y4.(b) required to be provided for in order,to enable such
Authority to carry: on its duties. and, functions
‘under this Act.

0) Rules ¢ made by : an 1 Authority of the University under
subsection (1), shal! come into force on such date as s shall
be specified therein.’

63. The provision of the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978,
shatt not apply to or in respect of the University established
by this Act. co

Regytations,

Rules.

Provisions of
Act, No. J6 of
1978 not to
apply.


44 University of Vocational: Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

‘PART XIE
INTERPRETATION

Interpretation. OH. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“appropriate Instrument” means any Ordinance, Statute,

By-Law, regulation or rule made in accordance with
the provisions of this Act ; ,

“Authority”means any Authority specified in section
17 of this Act ;

“By-Law” means’a By-Law made by the Board under
section 60 of this Act;

“degree” méans both undergraduate and postgraduate
degrees awarded by the University ; ;

“non- -academic staff’ means all the members of staff other
than the teachers of the University ;

“Ordinance” means any ‘Ordinance made by the Board
under section 20 of this Act ;

“principal executive officer” means the Vice-Chancellor
of the University;

“regulation” means any regulation ‘made by the
Academic Council under section 61 of this Act ;

“rule” means any Rule made by any Authority of the
University under section 62 of this Act 3

“Statute” means any Statute made by the Board under
section 59 of this Act ; and

“teacher” means a Senior Professor, Professor, Associate
Professor. Senior Lecturer, Lecturer and an Assistant
Lecturer.


University of Vocational Technology 45
Act, No, 31 of 2008

65. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this-Act. the Sinhala text’shall prevail.

66. Ww Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other provisions of this Act, pending the
creation and organization of the Faculties, the constitution
of the several Authorities and the appointment of the Officers
and other staff of the University under this Act, the President
shall in consultation with the Minister, appoint an Interim
Committee consisting of—

(a). a person who has academic qualifications and
experience in the field of construction,
manufacturing or any other field of technology. or
in the service sector, who shall function as the First

- Vice-Chancellor of the University; and

(b) the Director-General and one other Director of the
National Institute of Technical Education of
Sri Lanka, established by the National Institute of
Technical Education of Sri Lanka Act, No, 59 of
1998.

(2) T he Interim Committee appointed under subsection
(1) shall subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of this
section, function for a period of six months commencing
from the appointed date and shall be responsible for taking
all measures and arrangements necessary to enable the
University to commence its operations under this Act and to
achieve its objects after it commences its operations.

(3) In the discharge of its functions under subsection’ (2),
the Interim Cc ommittee shall have the power to—

(a) allocate the staff, students, equipment,’ land,
buildings and other facilities of the University and
to determine the structure and composition of each
Faculty and the disciplines and subjects that are to
be assigned to such Faculties; and .

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
iNconsistency.

Speciat
Provisions
pending the
establishment of
ithe University.


The First Vice-
Chancellor and
the First
Director-General
etc.. of the
University.

46 University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(b) exercise the powers of the Board and of any other
Authority of the University, in respect of any matter
concerning the University and the appointment of
any person or persons, inclusive of Officers named
under. this: Act, for the purpose of organizing,
carrying out and directing the functioning of the
University during such period.

(4) The period of six months referred to in subsection (2).
may be extended by the Minister on the recommendation of
the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister for a period not
exceeding a further six months. by Notification published in
the Gazette. The Notification shall be required be brought
before the Parliament for its approval, within one month of
the date of its publication in the Gazette. A Notification not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of disapproval, but without prejudice to the validity of
anything previously done thereundeér.

(5) The date on which any Notification shall be deemed to
be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazerte.

67. (1) The First Vice-Chancellor appointed under —
paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 66 shall during his
term of office exercise. discharge and perform in respect of
the University, all such powers, functions and duties as are
conferred or imposed on or assigned to the Vice-Chancellor
under this Act and any appropriate Instrument.

(2) The First Director-General of the University and the
Director, Finance of the University shall be appointed by the
Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister at any time during
the period of six months referred to in subsection (2) of section
66, and when so appointed shall, during their period of office
exercise, discharge and perform in respect of the University
all such powers. functions and duties as are conferred or
imposed on them under this Act and any appropriate
Instrument. ~


University of Vocational Technology 47
Act, No. 31 of 2008

68. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the National
Institute of Technical Education of Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of
1998, the officers and servants of the National Institute of
Technical Education of Sri Lanka established by such that
Act. (in this section referred to as the “Institute”’) who are in
the staff of that Institute as on the appointed date, shall, prior
to the expiry of a period of two months from the appointed
date, by a written communication addressed to the First Vice
Chancellor of the University appointed under paragraph (a)
of subsection (1) of section 66, inform such Vice-Chancellor,
whether such officer or servant would or would not accept
employment in the University in the event of being offered
employment there. : .

(2) All officers or servants of the Institute who are offered
employment in the University by the First Vice Chancellor
and who express a desire to accept such employment, shall
become members of the staff of the University from the date
specified in the Order made under subsection (1) of section
69, and shall be employed on terms not less favourable than
their terms of employment in the Institute.

(3) Where any officer or servant of the Institute express
a desire— ,

(a) not to accept employment in the University; or

(b) to accept employment in the University, but in
view of the nature of the services performed by
him in his employment in the Institute, he cannot
be accommodated in the staff of the University,

such officer or servant shal! be deemed to have retired
from service from the date specifted in the Order made
under subsection (1) of section 69, and shal! be eligible
for the retirement benefits that such officer or servant
would have been entitled to, if he retired from service in
the Institute after reaching his age of retirement.

Officers and
servants of the
National Institute
of Technical
Education of Sri
Lanka to be
offered
employment in
the University.


Repeal of the
National Institute
of Technical.
Education of Sri
Lanka Act, No.
59 of 1998.

48

69.

University of Vocational Technology
Act, No. 31 of 2008

(1) The National Institute of Technical Education of

Sri Lanka Act, No. 59 of 1998 shall stand repealed from such
date as the Minister shail specify by Order published in the
Gazette, provided the date to be so specified shall be a date
after six months but within twelve months of the appointed

date.

(2) Notwithstanding the aforementioned repeal of the Act,
from and after the date specified in the Order made under
subsection (1) of this section —

(a)

(b)

(¢)

(d)

_all movable and immovable property of the National

Institute of Technical Education of Sri Lanka shaft,
from the date specified in the Order made under
subsection (1), vest in the University;

all contracts and agreements entered into by or
with the National Institute of Technica! Education

‘of Sri Lanka and subsisting ‘on the day
’ immediately preceding the date specified in the
‘Order made under subsection (1), shall be deemed

to be contracts and agreements entered into, by
or with the University;

all sums of money lying to the credit of.the Fund
of the National Institute of Technical Education
of Sri Lanka ‘on the day immediately preceding
the date specified in the Order made under
subsection (1), shall stand. transferred with effect
form that date, to the Fund established by section

> 39 of this Act : and

all liabilities of the National Institute of Technical
Education of Sri Lanka existing on the day
immediately preceding the date specified in the
Order made under subsection (1), shall be deemed
to be the liabilities of the University.


————_
Anoual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to: the SuPeXINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF
Goverment Inrormation, No. 163. KiRULAPONS MAWATHA, PoLaencopa, CoLomBo 05 before
{5th December each year in respect of the year following.

