PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
4th Session 1968-69

IS4A-

Local Authorities
(Special Provisions) Act,
No. 42 of 1968

Date of Assent: November 24, 1968
Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the Government Press, CeyLon, ‘Io be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLUMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, CoLtomsBo 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.
> .% =
Price: 45 cents Postage: 10 cents


Local Authorities (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 42 of 1968

L. D.—O. 37/67.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MounicIPAL CoUNCILS
ORDINANCE, THE URBAN COUNCILS ORDINANCE AND
THE TOWN COUNCILS ORDINANCE.

[Date of Assent: November 24, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this pre-
sent Parliament assembled, and by the authority of
the same, as follows: —

1. This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 42 of 1968.

2. Section 170 of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance is hereby amended by the addition, at the
end of that section, of the following new sub-
section : —

“* (4) During the period intervening between
the constitution under this Ordinance of a
Municipal Council for any Municipality and the
election of the Mayor of the Council, the
Municipal Commissioner shall have, exercise,
perform and discharge all the rights, privileges,
powers, duties and functions vested in or
conferred or imposed on the Mayor by this
Ordinance or any other written law.’’.

8. (1) Section 277 of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance is hereby amended as follows : —

(a) in sub-section (4) of that section, by the
substitution, for all the words from “‘ shall
during such period ”’ to the end of that sub-
section, of the following :—

‘‘ shall during such period—

(a) have, exercise, perform and dis-
charge all the rights, privi-

leges, powers, duties and
H 15958—g,755 (7/68)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 170 of
Chapter 252.

Amendment of
section 277 of
Chapter 252.


Local Authorities (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 42 of 1968

functions vested in or con-
ferred or imposed on_ the
Council, the Mayor, or the
Deputy Mayor, by _ this
Ordinance or by any other
written law, and

(b) be the successor of the dissolved
Council or the Special Com-
missioner or Special Commis-
sioners, as the case may be.’’;

(b) by the insertion, immediately after sub-section
(4), of the following sub-sections :—

** (44) The Special Commissioner or
Special Commissioners appointed under sub-
section (2) upon the dissolution of a Council
shall—

(2) if the appointment was made immedi-
ately after the dissolution of the
Council, be the successor or successors
of the dissolved Council, and

(b) if the appointment was made after the
Municipal Commissioner under sub-
section (4) had had, exercised, per-
formed, and discharged the’ rights,
privileges, powers, duties and func-
tions referred to in that sub-section,
be the successor or successors of the
Municipal Commissioner.

(48) The provisions of section 325 with
the necessary modifications shall—

(az) in the case of a Municipal Commissioner
wh» under sub-section (4) of this sec-
tion is the successor of a Council
which was dissolved, or of a Special
Commissioner or Special Commis-
sioners, apply in the same manner as
if all references to any local authority
in the aforesaid section 325 were
references to the dissolved Council or
to the Special Commissioner OF


Local Authorities (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 42 of 1968

Special Commissioners, as the case
may be, and as if all references to a
Municipal Council in the aforesaid
section 325 were references to the
Municipal Commissioner, and

(b) in the case of a Special Commissioner
who under sub-section (4a) of this
section is the successor of a Council
which was dissolved or of the Munici-
pal Commissioner, apply in the same
manner as if all the references to any
local authority in that aforesaid sec-
tion 3825 were references to the
Council which was dissolved or to the
Municipal Commissioner, as the case
may be, and as if all the references
to a Municipal Council in the afore-
said section 325 were references to the
Special Commissioner.’’; and

(c) by the substitution, for sub-section (5), of the

tollowlng sub-section : —

‘* (5) Where, after the dissolution of the
Municipal Council for any Municipality, a
new Municipal Council is constituceu Lor wat
Municipality, the new Council shall be the
Successur OL the persoD or persons who,
immediately prior to the constitution of the
new Council nad had, exercised, performed
and discnarged the rights, privileges, powers,
duties and tunctions conerred or imposed
upon, or vested in, the Council by tnis
Ordinance or other written law, and tue pro-
visions of section 325 shall apply with the
necessary modifications in the case of the
constitution of the new Council in the same
manner as if all the references to any local
authority in that section were references to
such person or persons, as the case may be,
and as if all the references to a Municipal
Council in that section were references to the
new Council. ’’.


Amendment of
section 27 of
Chapter 2556.

Amendment of
section 184 of
Chapter 255.

4 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 42 of 1968

(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) of this section
shall be deemed to have come into effect on the date

of commencement of the Municipal Councils
Ordinance.

4. Section 27 of the Urban Councils Ordinance is
hereby amended in sub-section (3) of that section by
the substitution, for the words ‘* During the period
intervening between the expiry’’, of the words
‘* During the period intervening between the
constitution of an Urban Council under this
Ordinance and the election of a Chairman of that
Council and during the period intervening between
the expiry ”’.

' §. (1) Section 184 of the Urban Councils Ordi-
nance is hereby amended as follows :—

(a2) in sub-section (6) of that section—

(i) by the substitution, for the words ‘ that
town, all the property ’’, of the words
‘* that town, such Special Commis-
sioner or Commissioners shall be
deemed to be the successor or successors
of the dissolved Council and all the
property ’’, and

(ii) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ until
the Munister otherwise directs. ’’, of
the following :—

‘until the Minister otherwise
directs and the provisions of sections
236 to 244 shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply in the case of the
appointment of the Special Commis-
sioner or Commissioners in the same
manner as if every reference in those
sections to an Urban Council were @
reference to the Special Commissioner
or Commissioners and as if every
reference in those sections to a local
authority or authorities were @
reference to the dissolved Urban
Council. ’’; and


Local Authorities (Special Provisions) 5
Act, No. 42 of 1968

(b) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following sub-sections : —

(7) At any time after the appointment
of a Special Commissioner or Commissioners
to administer the affairs of a town upon the
dissolution of the Urban Council for that
town, the Minister may, by Order published
in the Gazette,—

(a) give such directions as may be necessary
for constituting for that town a new
Urban Council consisting of the same
number of members as the dissolved
Urban Council or of a larger or a
smaller number of members, as to him
may seem expedient, or

(b) reduce or enlarge or otherwise redefine
the limits of the town, and give such
directions as may be necessary for
constituting an Urban Council for the
redefined town.

(8) Where upon the termination of the
AdWAiNISlLallOL of the allasrs OL a WW DY a
Dpecial Collwisslovuer OL Uoliissivuicrs, a
Lew UlbaD Council 1S CODsuturced Lor Luab
towh, tue LEW LoUubcll Slall VE Lue SsuLccessUr
OL wwe Special Couuwissiguer Or Culus-
Sloler's, as bLue Case lay be, ald the provi-
Sluus OL S€CLIODS Z50 LO Z¢+4 Slall, Wit Lue
necessary mMoui0alons, apply w tue case of
the Cuustitution OL tue Lew Council in wwe
same manner as if all references to any local
authority or authorities in those sections were
references to the Special Commissioner or
Commissioners.”’. |

'_ (2) The provisions of sub-section (1) of this section
shall be deemed to have come into effect on the date of
commencement of the Urban Councils Ordinance.


Amendment of
section 26 of
Chapter 256.

Amendment of
section 183 of
Chapter 256.

6 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)

Act, No. 42 of 1968

6. Section 26 of the Town Councils Ordinance is
hereby amended in sub-section (3) of that section, by
the substitution, for the words *‘ During the period
ultervening between the expiry’’, of the words
‘* During the period intervening between the constitu-
tion of a ‘town Council under this Ordinance and the
election of a Chairman of that Council and during the
period intervening between the expiry ”’.

7. (1) Section 183 of the Town Councils Ordinance
is hereby amended as follows :—

(a) in sub-section (6) of that section,

(i) by the substitution, for the words ‘“‘ that
town, all the property ’’, of the words
‘“that town, such Special Commis-
sioner or Commissioners shall be the
successor or successors of the dissolved
Council and all the property ”’, and

(ii) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ until
the Minister otherwise directs. ’’, of
the following :—

‘‘ until the Minister otherwise
directs and the provisions of sections
233 to 240 shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply in the case ot the
appointment of the Special Commis-
sioner or Commissioners in the
same manner as if every reference 1n
those sections to a Town Council were
a reference to the Special Commis-
sioner or Commissioners and as if
every reference in those sections to a
local authority or authorities were a
reference to the dissolved Town
Council. ’’; and

(b) by the addition, at the end of that section, of
the following sub-sections : —

ima}

‘“(7) At any time after the appointment
of a Special Commissioner or Commissioners
to administer the affairs of a town upon the


Local Authorities (Special Provisions) 7
Act, No. 42 of 1968

dissolution of the Town Council for that
town, the Minister may, by Order published
in the Gazette,—

(a) give such directions as may be necessary
for constituting for that town a new
Town Council consisting of the same
number of members as the dissolved
Town Council or of a larger or a
smaller number of members, as to him
may seem expedient, or

(b) reduce or enlarge or otherwise redefine the
limits of the town, and give such
directions as may be necessary for
constituting a Town Council for the
redefined town.

(8) Where upon the termination of the
administration of the affairs of a town by a
Special Commissioner or Commissioners, a
new Town Council is constituted for that
town, the new Council shall be the successor
of the Special Commissioner or Commis-
sioners, as the case may be, and the provisions
of sections 233 to 240 shall, with the necessary
modifications, apply to the case of the
constitution of the new Council in the same
manner as if all references to any local
authority or authorities in those sections were
references to the Special Commissioner or
Commissioners. ’’.

(2) The provisions of sub-section (1) of this section
shall be deemed to have come into effect on the date of
commencement of the Town Councils Ordinance.
