Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of August 04, 2000

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

[Certified on 3rd August, 2000]

Printed on the Order of Government

Price : Rs. 160.00 Postage : Rs. 33.25

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

INLAND REVENUE ACT, No. 38 OF 2000

TABLE OF SECTIONS

SectionPage

1. Short title1

CHAPTER I

Imposition of Income Tax

2. Imposition of Income Tax1

CHAPTER II

Income Chargeable with Tax

3. Income chargeable with Tax2

4. Profits from employment2

5. Net annual value of land and improvements thereon5

6. Profits or income arising from rents of land and improvementsthereon5

7. Capital gains5

CHAPTER III

Exemptions from Income Tax

8. Exemption from income tax of certain persons (other thanindividuals) on the whole or any part of their profits and income12

9. Exemption from income tax of certain profits and income ofcertain officers and employees21

10. Exemption from income tax of certain interest received29

11. Exemption from income tax of certain dividends30

12. Exemption from income tax of certain profits and income fromland and improvements thereon33

13. Exemption from income tax of certain subsidies35

14. Exemption from income tax of certain capital gains36

(i)

2H 066967,600 (00/03)

15. Miscellaneous exemptions from income tax40

16. Exemption of the profits and income arising or derived outsideSri Lanka of any resident guest45

17. Exemption from income tax for five years of the profits andincome of certain companies45

18. Exemption from income tax of the profits and income of anyundertaking which provides certain services47

19. Exemption from income tax of the profits and income of anycompany engaged in non-plantation agricultural activities47

20. Exemption from income tax of the profits and income ofa company which exports fresh or processed vegetables or fruits47

21. Exemption from income tax of the profits from the constructionand first sale of certain houses48

22. Power of Commissioner-General to recommend cancellationof approval granted under section 1748

CHAPTER IV

Ascertainment of Profits or Income

23. Ascertainment of profits or income49

24. Deductions not allowed in ascertaining profits and income61

CHAPTER V

Ascertainment of Total Statutory Income

25. Basis for computing statutory income66

26. Apportionment of profits68

27. Total statutory income68

28. Aggregation of the total statutory income of a child with thatof his parent68

SectionPage

(ii)

CHAPTER VI

Ascertainment of Assessable Income

29. Deduction from total statutory income in arriving at assessableincome69CHAPTER VII

Ascertainment of Taxable Income

30. Taxable income79

31. An allowance in respect of qualifying payments80

CHAPTER VIII

Rates of Income Tax on persons other than Companies

32. Rates of income tax on persons other than companies84

CHAPTER IX

Special Provisions Relating to the Taxation of Certain Profits and ofDividends out of such Profits

33. Special provision relating to taxation of interest on compensation payable in respect of property vested in the Government, the Land Reform Commission or a public corporation or a localauthority.91

34. Deductions of income tax from interest payable on certaindeposit accounts92

35. Rate of income tax on the gross interest on loans granted bycompany, partnership or body of persons outside Sri Lanka94

36. The rate of income tax on royalties payable to any company,partnership or body of persons outside Sri Lanka94

37. The rate of income tax on profits from employment, for aspecified period of a non citizen employed in Sri Lanka94

38. The rate of income tax on the profits of any foreign currencybanking unit95

SectionPage

(iii)

39. Rate of income tax on the profits from certain undertakings carriedon by a person other than a company95

40. Rate of income tax on the profits from certain undertakings carriedon by a company97

41. Rate of income tax on the dividends paid out of profits taxed inaccordance with section 4098

42. Deduction from tax payable by any quoted public company undercertain conditions99

43. Deductions from tax payable by any company which obtains aquotation of the shares and satisfies certain conditions99

44. Rate of income tax on the qualified export profits and income of persons not being a company who commences to carry on anyspecified undertaking100

45. Rate of income tax on the qualified export profits and income of a company which commences to carry on any specifiedundertaking101

46. Rate of income tax on qualified export profits and income of aperson not being a company who carries on any specifiedundertaking101

47. Rate of income tax on qualified export profits and income of acompany which carries on any specified undertaking102

48. Rate of income tax on dividends out of export profits and income 102

49. Rate of income tax on profits from deemed exports of anyperson or partnership106

50. Rate of income tax on profits and income from services rendered out side Sri Lanka by any resident company or partnership108

51. Rate of income tax on emoluments and fees earned in foreigncurrency by an individual or by any partnership109

52. Interpretation110

SectionPage

(iv)

CHAPTER X

Companies

53. Income tax to which any resident company is liable112

54. Advance company tax on qualifying distribution to which resident companies are liable114

55. Dividend consisting of any qualifying distribution when receivedby a resident person other than a company115

56. Resident company to maintain a record of dividends Received115

57. Income tax to which any non-resident company is liable117

58. Certain dividends not to form part of the assessable income ofthe receiving company118

59. Profits of a company from transactions with its shareholders118

60. Every resident company to deduct income tax from any dividendreceived from any quoted public company and payable to anynon-resident person118

61. Resident company entitled to deduct tax from any dividend119

62. Certain undistributed profits to be treated as distributed123

63. Provisions applicable where the profits and income of a companyare appropriated by the director, &c., of that company125

CHAPTER XI

Special Cases

A-CHILDREN

64. Assessment of childs income 126

SectionPage

(v)

B-RECEIVERS, TRUSTEES, EXECUTORS &C.

65. Returns to be furnished by receivers and trustees127

66. Chargeability to tax128

67. Liability of executor to tax payable by deceased person128

68. Returns to be furnished by executors and chargeability ofexecutors and beneficiaries129

69. Joint trustees and executors130

C-UNIT TRUST

70. Every unit trust deemed to be a company130

D-PARTNERSHIPS

71. Assessment of partnership income131

72. Assessment to be made in the name of the partnership in certain circumstances134

E-RESIDENCE

73. What constitutes residence135

F-LIABILITY OF NON-RESIDENT PERSONS

74. Chargeability of certain profits of non-resident persons136

75. Persons assessable on behalf of non-resident person137

76. Liability of certain non-resident persons137

77. Profits of certain businesses to be computed on a per centageof the turnover139

78. Profits of non-resident persons from sale of exported produce139

79. Liability to income tax of certain profits of non-resident persons139

80. Exemption of income of non-resident persons in certain casesand liability of certain non-resident persons to income tax atreduced rates140

SectionPage

(vi)

G-SHIPPING AND OPERATION OF AIRCRAFT

81. Profits of non-resident ship-owners or charterers140

82. Master of ship to be an agent141

83. Refusal of clearance of ship where income tax is in arrears141

84. Profits of non-resident owners or charterers of aircraft142

85. Application of subsection (2) of section 81, 82 and 83 to profitsof non-resident owners or charterers of any aircraft143

H-INSURANCE

86. Ascertainment of profits of insurance companies144

87. Ascertainment of profits of the Insurance Corporation of SriLanka from the business of life insurance146

I-INTEREST, &C., PAYABLE TO PERSONS OUTSIDE SRI LANKA

88. Interest on certain loans deemed to be profits and income147

89. Certain royalties deemed to be profits and income147

90. Deduction of income tax from interest, &c., payable to personsoutside Sri Lanka147

91. Deduction of income tax from payments made to any foreignentertainer or artist149

J-RELIEF IN CASES OF DOUBLE TAXATION

92. Effect of agreement for double taxation relief151

93. Relief in respect of Sri Lanka income tax153

SectionPage

(vii)

K-MISCELLANEOUS

94. Applicability of provisions relating to particular sources of profits or income155

95. How certain receipts of insurance are to be treated155

96. Ascertainment of income of clubs, trade associations, &c.,156

97. Certain transactions and dispositions to be disregarded156

CHAPTER XII

Returns, &c.

98. Returns and information to be furnished157

99. Audit reports to be furnished by partners &c.160

100. Returns and other documents to contain the national identity cardnumber or passport number162

101. Returns to be furnished of income received on account of or paid to, other persons163

102. Occupiers to furnish returns of rent payable164

103. Return of lodgers and inmates164

104. Power of Commissioner-General to impose penalty for failure tofurnish returns164

CHAPTER XIII

Payments to Tax by Self-Assessment

105. Payment of tax by self-assessment166

SectionPage

(viii)

CHAPTER XIV

Deduction of Income Tax from Remuneration of Employees byEmployers

106. Employers to deduct income tax167

107. Employers to give notice to the Commissioner-General167

108. Application of income tax tables168

109. Directions to employers170

110. Employers to maintain proper records171

111. Duties of employers following deductions of income tax172

112. Adjustments of amount of income tax not paid or paid in excess173

113. Employee to give notice when the necessary deductions are notmade174

114. Income tax deducted not to form part of assets of employers174115. Default in the deduction or payment of income tax174116. Issue of assessments on employers175117. Appeals176118. Penalty for default178119. Credit for tax paid178120. Compliance with the provisions of this Chapter relating to forms179

121. Interpretation179

CHAPTER XV

Deduction of Income Tax from Interest paid by Banks and FinancialInstitutions

122. Banks and financial institutions to deduct income tax181

123. Credit for tax deducted182

124. Issue of directions183

125. Duties of Banks and financial institutions following deductionsof income tax184

SectionPage

(ix)

126. Default in the deduction of income tax184

127. Issue of assessments on banks and financial institutions185

128. Appeals186

129. Penalty for default187

130. Interpretation188

CHAPTER XVI

Deduction of Income Tax from Specified fees paid by SpecifiedPersons

131. Specified persons to deduct income tax from specified fees188

132. Provisions of Chapter XV to apply in relation to the deductionunder this Chapter of income tax from specified fees189

CHAPTER XVII

Retention of Moneys in Certain Provident Funds

133. Retention of fifteen per centum of money lying to the credit ofa contributor to a specified provident fund to meet any taxpayable190

CHAPTER XVIII

Assessments

134. Assessments and additional assessments190

135. Notice of assessment192

CHAPTER XIX

Appeals

A-APPEALS TO THE COMMISSIONER-GENERAL

136. Appeals to the Commissioner-General193

(x)

SectionPage

B-APPEALS TO THE BOARD OF REVIEW

137. Constitution of the Board of Review197

138. Appeals to the Board of Review197

139. Commissioner-General may refer appeals to the Board ofReview198

140. Hearing and determination of appeals by the Board of Review198

C-APPEALS TO THE COURT OF APPEAL

141. Appeal on a question of law to the Court of Appeal200

CHAPTER XX

Finality of Assessments and Penalty for Incorrect Returns

142. Assessments or amended assessments to be final203

143. Penalty for incorrect returns203

CHAPTER XXI

Tax in Default and Sums added thereto

144. Tax in default and sums added thereto204

CHAPTER XXII

Recovery of Tax

145. Tax to include fines, &c.209

146. Tax to be a first charge210

147. Notice to defaulter211

148. Recovery of tax by seizure and sale212

149. Proceedings for recovery before a Magistrate215

SectionPage

(xi)

150. Recovery of tax out of debts, &c.216

151. Transfer of immovable property to Government in lieu of payment of tax in cash219

152. Tax in default to be recovered from remuneration of employee220

153. Tax in default of a partner to be recovered from the assets of apartnership222

154. Recovery of income tax from the income or wealth of a child222

155. Recovery of income tax payable by a beneficiary from thetrustee222

156. Recovery of income tax payable by a beneficiary from theexecutor222

157. Gift tax to be recovered from the donee in certain circumstances223

158. Recovery of tax from persons leaving Sri Lanka223

159. Use of more than one means of recovery224

160. Power of Commissioner-General to obtain information for therecovery of tax224

161. Liability of directors of private company in liquidation224

162. Delegation of Commissioner-Generals powers and functions224

CHAPTER XXIII

Miscellaneous

163. Signature and service of notices225

164. Validity of notices, assessments, &c.226

165. Precedent partner to act on behalf of a partnership226

166. Principal officer to act on behalf of company or body of persons227

167. Who may act for incapacitated or non-resident person227

168. Indemnification of representative227

SectionPage

(xii)

CHAPTER XXIV

Repayment

169. Tax paid in excess to be refunded228

170. Interest payable on the amount of a refund in certaincircumstances231

CHAPTER XXV

Penalties and Offences

171. Penalties for failure to make returns, making incorrect Returns,&c.231

172. Breach of secrecy and other matters to be offences234

173. Penal provisions relating to fraud, &c.235

174. Tax to be payable notwithstanding any prosecution or convictionfor an offence under this Act237

175. Prosecutions to be with the sanction of the Commissioner-General237

176. Admissibility of statements and documents in evidence237

CHAPTER XXVI

Administration

177. Officers237

178. Official secrecy238

179. Inland Revenue Incentive Fund244

180. Commissioner-General may pay rewards to informants245

SectionPage

(xiii)

CHAPTER XXVII

General

181. Regulations245

182. Forms247

183. Power to search buildings or places247

184. Power to search business premises250

185. Sinhala text to prerail in case of inconsestency251

CHAPTER XXVIII

Interpretation

186. Interpretation251

CHAPTER XXIX

Application of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979

187. Application of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979262

SCHEDULES

First Schedule264

Second Schedule264

Third Schedule264

Fourth Schedule266

Fifth Schedule266

(xiv)

SectionPage

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20001

[Certified on 3rd August, 2000]

L.D.O. 56/99.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX FOR

ANY YEAR OF ASSESSMENT COMMENCING ON OR AFTER April 1,2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue Act,No. 38 of 2000.

CHAPTER I

IMPOSITION OF INCOME TAX

2.(1) Income tax shall, subject to the provisions of thisAct, be charged at the appropriate rates specified in the First,Second and Third Schedules to this Act, for every year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1, 2000, in respectof the profits and income of every person for that year ofassessment

(a) wherever arising, in the case of a person who isresident in Sri Lanka in that year of assessment ; and

(b) arising in, or derived from, Sri Lanka in the case ofevery other person.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, profits and incomearising in, or derived from, Sri Lanka includes all profitsand income derived from services rendered in Sri Lanka orfrom property in Sri Lanka, or from business transacted inSri Lanka, whether directly or through an agent.

Imposition ofIncome Tax.

Short Title.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20002

CHAPTER II

INCOME CHARGEABLE WITH TAX

3.For the purpose of this Act, profits and income orprofits or income means

(a) the profits from any trade, business, profession orvocation for however short a period carried on orexercised ;

(b) the profits from any employment ;

(c) the net annual value of any land and improvementsthereon occupied by or on behalf of the owner in sofar as it is not so occupied for the purposes of a trade,business, profession or vocation ;

(d) the net annual value of any land and improvementsthereon used rent-free by the occupier if such netannual value is not taken into account in ascertainingprofits and income under paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) ofthis section, or where the rent paid for such land andimprovements is less than the net annual value, theexcess of such net annual value over the rent, to bedeemed in each case the income of the occupier ;

(e) dividends, interest or discounts ;

(f) charges or annuities ;

(g) rents, royalties or premiums ;

(h) capital gains ; and

(i) income from any other source whatsoever, notincluding profits of a casual and non-recurring nature.

4.(1) Profits from any employment include

(a)(i) any wages, salary, allowance, leave pay, fee,pension, commission, bonus, gratuity, perquisiteor such other payment in money which anemployee receives in the course of hisemployment ;

Incomechargeable withtax.

Profits fromemployment.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20003

(ii) the value of any benefits to the employee or tohis spouse, child or parent including the value ofany holiday warrant or passage ;

(iii) any payment to any other person for the benefitof the employee or of his spouse, child or parent,

whether received or derived from the employer orothers ;

(b) the value of any conveyance granted free of any chargeby an employer to any employee, or any sum sogranted for the purchase of any conveyance ;

(c)(i) any retiring gratuity or any sum received incommutation of pension ;

(ii) any sum paid from a provident fund approved bythe Commissioner-General to any employee atthe time of his retirement, other than such part ofthat sum as represents his contributions to thatfund ;

(iii) any sum paid from a regulated provident fund toan employee other than

(A) such part of that sum as represents hiscontributions to that fund ; and

(B) such part of that sum as represents thecontributions made by the employer to thatfund prior to April 1, 1968 and the interestwhich accrued on such contributions, if taxat the rate of fifteen per centum has been paidby such employer in respect of suchcontributions and interest ;

(iv) any sum received as compensation for loss of anyoffice or employment ;

(v) any sum paid from the Employees Trust Fundestablished by the Employees Trust Fund Act,No. 46 of 1980.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20004

(d) the rental value of any place of residence providedrent-free by the employer or where a place of residenceis provided by an employer at a rent less than the rentalvalue, the excess of the rental value over such rent.

For the purposes of this paragraph the rental value ofany place of residence shall be

(i) the net annual value as defined in section 5 withthe addition of the rates paid by the owner and ofthirty three and one-third per centum of such netannual value on account of repairs and otherexpenses ; or

(ii) the gross rent paid for such place of residence,

whichever is higher :

Provided that, any excess of the rental value over onehundred and twenty thousand rupees shall bedisregarded.

(2) For the purposes of this section, the value of anybenefit, in relation to an individual who has received, orderived such benefit, means

(a) where the market value of such benefit can be readilyascertained, such market value ; or

(b) where the market value of such benefit cannot bereadily ascertained, or such benefit has no marketvalue, the cost that would have to be incurred by anyother individual to obtain such benefit :

Provided that the Commissioner-General may,having regard to the market value of that benefit orthe cost that would have to be incurred by any otherindividual to obtain that benefit, by Order publishedin the Gazette, specify the value to be placed on anybenefit and where a value is so specified in respect ofa benefit, such value shall be deemed to be the valueof such benefit.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20005

5.(1) The net annual value of land and improvementsthereon or of any place of residence shall be determined onthe basis of the rent which a tenant might reasonably beexpected, taking one year with another, to pay for such landand improvements or for such place of residence (the tenantpaying rates and the owner bearing the cost of repairs) subjectto a deduction of twenty-five per centum on account of repairsand other expenses.

(2) Where the annual value of any land and improvementsthereon or of any place of residence has been assessed forrating purposes by a local authority, such annual value, less adeduction of twenty-five per centum on account of repairsand other expenses, shall be the net annual value unless in theopinion of the Commissioner-General the assessment madeby the local authority does not accurately represent the annualvalue of such land and improvements or place of residence inthe year for which the net annual value is being determined.

6.The profits or income arising from rents of land andimprovements thereon shall be the gross rent which isreceivable and can be recovered after deducting therefromrates borne by the owner and, where the owner undertakes tobear the cost of repairs, twenty-five per centum of the balance,but shall, where the rent recoverable in respect of such landand improvements is not restricted by any law for the timebeing in force, be not less than the net annual value afterdeducting therefrom any part thereof which is the income ofthe occupier within the meaning of paragraph (d) of section 3due provision being made for any period in respect of whichno rent is receivable or can be recovered.

7.(1) Capital gain means the profits or income, notbeing profits or income within the meaning of paragraph (a),(g) or (i) of section 3, arising from

(a) the change of ownership of any property occurring inany manner whatsoever ;

(b) the surrender or relinquishment of any right in anyproperty ;

Capital gain.

Profits or incomearising from rentsof land andimprovementsthereon.

Net annualvalue of landandimprovementsthereon or ofany place ofresidence.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20006

(c) the transfer of some of the rights in any property ;

(d) the redemption of any share, debenture or otherobligation ;

(e) the formation of a company ;

(f) the dissolution of a business or the liquidation of acompany ;

(g) the amalgamation or merger of two or more businessesor companies ; or

(h) any transaction in connection with the promotion ofwhich any person who is not a party to such transactionreceives a commission or reward.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) and in relation tothe capital gain of any person, the profits and income arisingfrom

(a) a change of ownership of property, means, subject tothe provisions of subsection (4), the amount by whichthe value of the property at the time when such changeof ownership occurs exceeds its value at the time whenit was acquired by that person ;

(b) the surrender or relinquishment of any right or thetransfer of some of the rights in any property means,subject to the provisions of subsection (4) the valueof the consideration for such surrender, relinquishmentor transfer ;

(c) the redemption of any share, debenture or otherobligation, means, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4), the value of all property received byhim in consequence of such redemption less the valueof that which is redeemed at the time when it wasacquired by him or where that which is redeemed isany property referred to in paragraph (e) or paragraph(f) or paragraph (g) or paragraph (h) of subsection (3),less such value of that property as is specified in thatparagraph ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20007

(d) the formation of a company, means, subject to theprovisions of subsection (4), the value of theconsideration received by him for any transaction inconnection with the formation of such company ;

(e) the dissolution of a business or the liquidation of acompany, means, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4), the amount by which the value of allproperty received by him in consequence of suchdissolution or liquidation exceeds the value of his shareof the capital of such business or company at the timewhen such share was acquired by him ;

(f) the amalgamation or merger of two or morecompanies, means, where such person was ashareholder of any of those companies, any moneyreceived by such shareholder in consequence of suchamalgamation or merger, and where such person wasnot a shareholder of any of those companies, the valueof the consideration received by him for anytransaction in connection with such amalgamation ormerger ; and

(g) the promotion of a transaction to which such personwas not a party, means, the commission or rewardreceived by him in connection with such promotion.

(3) Value, with reference to any property orconsideration in the context of the definition of capital gainand in relation to any person to whom the capital gain arises,shall be as follows :

(a) where the property was acquired before April 1, 1977,by the person to whom such gain arises then, subjectto the provisions of paragraph (c), paragraph (d),paragraph (e), paragraph (f), paragraph (g) andparagraph (h), the value of the property at the timewhen it was acquired by such person shall be anamount equal to the market value of the property onApril 1, 1977 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20008

(b) where the property was acquired on or after April 1,1977, by the person to whom such gain arises then,subject to the provisions of paragraph (c), paragraph(d), paragraph (e), paragraph (f), paragraph (g),paragraph (h), paragraph (l) and paragraph (m), thevalue of the property at the time it was acquired bysuch person shall if such acquisition was

(i) by purchase, be an amount equal to the cost ofsuch purchase ; and

(ii) otherwise than by purchase, be an amount equalto the market value of the property at the time ofsuch acquisition ;

(c) where the property was acquired by the person towhom such gain arises in his capacity as a beneficiaryunder a trust or the testate or intestate heir of thedeceased, in consequence of a transfer by the trusteeof such trust or by the executor appointed to administerthe estate of such deceased, the value of the propertyat the time of such acquisition shall if the the date ofthe acquisition of such property by such trustee orexecutor is

(i) before April 1, 1977, be an amount equal to themarket value of the property on April 1, 1977 ;and

(ii) on or after April 1, 1977, be an amount equal tothe market value of the property at the time whensuch trustee or executor came into possession ofthe property ;

(d) where the person to whom the gain arises had comeinto possession of the property immediately after thecessation of a life interest of any other person in theproperty or after the cessation of the rights of fiduciaryin that property, the value of the property at the time

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 20009

when the first-mentioned person acquired suchproperty shall if the date of the cessation of such lifeinterest or such rights of a fiduciary is

(i) before April 1, 1977, be an amount equal to themarket value of the property on April 1, 1977 ;and

(ii) on or after April 1, 1977, be an amount equal tothe market value of the property on such date ;

(e) where the property is a bonus share issued on or afterApril 1, 1977, to the person to whom such gain arises,the value of the property at the time when it wasacquired by such person shall be deemed to be nil ;

(f) where the property is a share issued on or after April1, 1977, to the person to whom such gain arises at aprice less than the market value of such share, the valueof the property at the time when it was acquired bysuch person shall be an amount equal to the cost ofacquisition of such property ;

(g) where the property consists of any shares received bythe person to whom such gain arises in lieu of sharesheld by him in any of two or more companies whichhave amalgamated or merged on or after April 1, 1977,the value of the property at the time when it was soreceived shall if the last-mentioned shares wereacquired by him

(i) before April 1, 1977, be an amount equal to themarket value of the last-mentioned shares on April1, 1977 ; or

(ii) on or after April 1, 1977, be an amount equal tothe cost of purchase of such shares as wereacquired by purchase and the market value on thedate of acquisition of such shares as were acquiredby him otherwise than by purchase ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200010

(h) where the property consists of shares in respect ofwhich there has been a return or distribution of capital,the value of the property at the time when such shareswere acquired shall if such shares were acquired bythe person to whom such gain arises

(i) before April 1, 1977, be an amount equal to themarket value of the shares on April 1, 1977, lessthe amount of the capital returned or distributed,on or after that date, if the amount of the capitalreturned or distributed is not a dividend withinthe meaning of this Act ; and

(ii) on or after April 1, 1977, be an amount equal tothe cost of purchase of such shares as wereacquired by purchase and the market value on thedate of acquisition of such shares as were acquiredby him otherwise than by purchase, less theamount of the capital returned or distributed ifthe amount of the capital returned or distributedis not a dividend within the meaning of this Act ;

(i) the value of the property at the time of the occurrenceof the transaction which resulted in such gain shall, ifsuch transaction is

(i) a sale of the property, be an amount equal to thesale price of such property ;

(ii) other than a sale, be an amount equal to the marketvalue of such property at the time of theoccurrence of the transaction ;

(j) the value of any consideration received by the personto whom such gain arises shall, where theconsideration is

(i) partly cash and partly property other than cash,be an amount equal to the aggregate of such cashand the market value of such property on the dateon which the consideration was received ; and

(ii) wholly property other than cash, be an amountequal to the market value of such property on thedate on which the consideration was received ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200011

(k) where, in the case of a change of ownership of theproperty of any person occurring by sale, the Assessoris of the opinion that the sale price is less than themarket value of that property at the time of the sale,then unless such person satisfies the Assessor thatthere was reasonable cause for the difference betweenthe sale price and such market value, the value of suchproperty at the time of the sale shall be an amountequal to the market value of that property at thattime ;

(l) where the property is immovable property and thatproperty was acquired by way of gift or inheritance,on or after April 1, 1977, by the person to whom thecapital gain arises from any person who had acquiredsuch property prior to April 1, 1977, the value of suchproperty at the time it was acquired by the first-mentioned person shall be an amount equal to themarket value of such property on April 1, 1977,increased by the cost of any improvements, additionsor alterations to that property made by the second-mentioned person after April 1, 1977 ; and

(m) where the property is immovable property and thatproperty was acquired by way of gift or inheritanceon or after April 1, 1977, by the person to whom suchgain arises from any person who had acquired suchproperty on or after April 1, 1977, the value of suchproperty at the time when it was acquired by the first-mentioned person shall, if the second-mentionedperson had acquired that property

(i) by purchase, be an amount equal to the cost ofsuch purchase ; and

(ii) otherwise than by purchase, be an amount equalto the market value of the property at the time ofsuch acquisition,

increased by the cost of any improvements, additionsor alterations to that property made by the second-mentioned person after it was acquired by him.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200012

(4) For the purposes of subsection (2), the amount of acapital gain shall be computed after making the followingdeductions

(a) any expenditure (other than the purchase price if any)incurred on or after April 1, 1977, solely in connectionwith the acquisition of the property by the person whois the owner of that property immediately before theoccurrence of the transation which resulted in suchgain ;

(b) any expenditure incurred on or after April 1, 1977, bysuch owner in making any improvements, additionsor alterations to that property if no deduction in respectof such expenditure is or has been allowed undersection 23 of this Act or under section 23 or paragraph(1) of subsection (2) of section 31 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 ;

(c) any expenditure incurred by such owner solely inconnection with the transaction which resulted in suchgain.

CHAPTER III

EXEMPTION FROM INCOME TAX

8.There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) the profits and income of

(i) the Incorporated Council of Legal Educationestablished by Council of Legal Education Act,(Chapter 276).

(ii) the Institute of Chartered Accountants ofSri Lanka established by the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka Act, No.23 of 1959.

(iii) the Sri Lanka Tea Board established by theSri Lanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975 ;

Exemptionfrom incometax of certainpersons (otherthanindividuals) onthe whole orany part oftheir profitsand income.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200013

(iv) the Ceylon National Library Services Boardestablished by the Ceylon National LibraryServices Board Act, No. 17 of 1970 ;

(v) any University which is established or deemedto be established under the Universities Act, No.16 of 1978 ;

(vi) the Coconut Development Authority, theCoconut Research Board, and the CoconutCultivation Board, established by or under theCoconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971 ;

(vii) the Widows and Orphans Pension Fund ofpublic officers of Sri Lanka (Chapter 431) ;

(viii) any Widows and Orphans Pension Fund orScheme established for the Local GovernmentService ;

(ix) the World Tourism Organization ;

(x) any institution or trust of a public characterestablished by any written law solely for thepurposes of scientific research ;

(xi) the United Nations Organization including thenet annual value of any land and improvementsthereon in Sri Lanka owned by and occupiedby or on behalf of the Organization ;

(xii) the S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike National MemorialFoundation established by the S.W.R.D.Bandaranaike National Memorial FoundationLaw, No. 2 of 1975 ;

(xiii) the National Science Foundation established bythe Science and Technology Development Act,No. 11 of 1994 ;

(xiv) the Industrial Technology Institute establishedby the Science and Technology DevelopmentAct, No. 11 of 1994 ;

(xv) the International Development Association ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200014

(xvi) the Sri Lanka Standards Institution establishedby the Sri Lanka Standards Institution Act, No.6 of 1984 ;

(xvii) the Asian Development Bank ;

(xviii) any Resort Authority constituted undersubsection (1) of section 57 of the TouristDevelopment Act, No. 14 of 1968 ;

(xix) the Ceylon Tourist Board established by theCeylon Tourist Board Act, No. 10 of 1966 ;

(xx) the International Finance Corporation ;

(xxi) the International Bank for Reconstruction andDevelopment or any other international orforeign organization approved by the Minister,being profits and income attributable to theinterest and other charges on any loan grantedto the Development Finance Corporation ;

(xxii) the Monetary Board established by the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422) being the profits andincome of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;

(xxiii) any registered society within the meaning of theCo-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972, themajority of the members of which are residentin Sri Lanka being profits and income of thatsociety arising out of any business specified bythe Minister by notice published in the Gazettehaving regard to Government policy in relationto the Co-operative movement.

For the purpose of ascertaining themembership of a registered society of whichanother registered society is a member, each ofthe members of the second-mentioned societyshall be deemed to be a member of the first-mentioned society ;

(xxiv) the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute establishedby the Sri Lanka Foundation Law, No. 31 of1973 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200015

(xxv) the Tower Hall Theatre Foundation establishedby the Tower Hall Theatre Foundation Act, No.1 of 1978 ;

(xxvi) the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission establishedby the Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives Act, No.53 of 1979 ;

(xxvii) the Ceylon Medical Council established by theMedical Ordinance (Chapter 105) ;

(xxviii) Ayurvedic Medical Council established by theAyurveda Act, No. 31 of 1961 ;

(xxix) the Homoeopathic Council established byHomoeopathy Act, No. 7 of 1970 ;

(xxx) the Sri Lanka College of Physicians establishedby the Sri Lanka College of Physicians(Incorporation) Act, No. 9 of 1971 ;

(xxxi) the Institute of Engineers, Ceylon, incorporatedby the Institute of Engineers, Ceylon Act, No.17 of 1968 ;

(xxxii) the Sri Lanka Export Credit InsuranceCorporation established by the Sri Lanka ExportCredit Insurance Corporation Act, No. 15 of1978 ;

(xxxiii) the Sri Lanka Export Development Boardestablished under the Sri Lanka ExportDevelopment Board Act, No. 40 of 1979 ;

(xxxiv) the Sri Lanka Ex-Servicemens Associationestablished by the Sri Lanka Ex-ServicemensAssociation Law, No. 8 of 1976 ;

(xxxv) a company registered under Part VIII of theCompanies Act, No. 17 of 1982, being profitsand income arising to such company from a shipwhich is

(i) engaged in international operations ;(ii) owned or chartered by such company ;and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200016

(iii) deemed to be a Sri Lanka ship by reasonof a determination made under paragraph(c) of section 30 of the Merchant ShippingAct, No. 52 of 1971,

other than profits and income arising to suchcompany form the carriage, by that ship, ofpassengers, mails, livestock and goods, to orfrom, a port in Sri Lanka ;

(xxxvi) the Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka,established by the Institute of FundamentalStudies, Sri Lanka Act, No. 55 of 1981 ;

(xxxvii) the International Winged Beans (Dambala)Institute established by the International WingedBean (Dambala) Institute Act, No. 7 of 1982 ;

(xxxviii) the Buddhist and Pali University of Sri Lankaand any Higher Educational Institutionestablished by, or under, the Buddhist and PaliUniversity of Sri Lanka Act, No. 74 of 1981 ;

(xxxix) the International Irrigation ManagementInstitute ;

(xl) the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing establishedby the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing Act, No.18 of 1984 ;

(xli) the Energy Conservation Fund established bythe Energy Conservation Fund Act, No. 2 of1985 ;

(xlii) the Tea Small Holdings Development Authorityestablished by the Tea Small HoldingsDevelopment Law, No. 35 of 1975 ;

(xliii) the Co-operative Development Fund establishedunder the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 ;

(xliv) the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka establishedby the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200017

(xlv) the Presidents Fund established by thePresidents Fund Act, No. 7 of 1978 ;

(xlvi) the National Defence Fund established by theNational Defence Fund Act, No. 9 of 1985 ;

(xlvii) the Sri Lanka Institute of Architectsincorporated by the Sri Lanka Institute ofArchitects Law, No. 1 of 1976 ;

(xlviii) the Surveyors Institute of Sri Lankaincorporated by the Surveyors Institute of SriLanka Act, No. 22 of 1982 ;

(xlix) the Institute of Chemistry, Ceylon incorporatedby the Institute of Chemistry (Ceylon) Act, No.15 of 1972 ;

(l) the Sri Lanka Institute of DevelopmentAdministration established by the Sri lankaInstitute of Development Administration Act,No. 9 of 1982 ;

(li) the Trust Fund set up with European EconomicCommunity Funds for the benefit of the settlersin

(i) Zones 2 and 3 of System B area ; and(ii) System G area ;demarcated and administered by the MahaweliAuthority of Sri Lanka established by theMahaweli Authority Act, No. 23 of 1979 ;

(lii) the Agricultural and Agrarian Insurance Boardestablished by the Agricultural and AgrarianInsurance Law, No. 20 of 1999 ;

(liii) the Superior Courts Complex Board ofManagement established by the Superior CourtsComplex Board of Management Act, No. 50 of1987 ;

(liv) the International Committee of the Red Cross ;

(lv) the Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lankaestablished by the Institute of Policy Studies ofSri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1988 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200018

(lvi) the Credit Information Bureau of Sri Lankaestablished by the Credit Information Bureauof Sri Lanka Act, No. 18 of 1990 ;

(lvii) Rubber Research Board established under theRubber Research Ordinance, (Chapter 439) ;

(lviii) the Buddha Sasana Fund established by theBuddha Sasana Fund Act, No. 35 of 1990 ;

(lix) the J.R. Jayawardene Centre established by theJ.R. Jayawardene Centre Act, No. 77 of 1988 ;

(lx) the Institute of Supply and MaterialsManagement, Sri Lanka established by theInstitute of Supply and Materials Management,Sri Lanka Act, No. 3 of 1981 ;

(lxi) the Stabilization Fund for Tea, Rubber andCoconut established under Part IV of theFinance Act, No. 38 of 1971 ;

(lxii) the Janasaviya Trust Fund incorporated underthe Trust Ordinance (Chapter 96) ;

(lxiii) the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka establishedby the Institute of Bankers of Sri Lanka Act,No. 26 of 1979 ;

(lxiv) the Overseas Private Investment Corporation ofthe United States of America ;

(lxv) the Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund ofJapan ;

(lxvi) the World Conservation Union ;

(lxvii) the Institute of Personnel Management, SriLanka, incorporated by the Institute of PersonnelManagement, Sri Lanka Law, No. 24 of 1976 ;

(lxviii) Public Enterprises Reform Commission of SriLanka, established by the Public EnterprisesReform Commission of Sri Lanka, Act, No. 1of 1996 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200019

(lxix) the Securities and Exchange Commission of SriLanka established by the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka Act, No.36 of 1987 ;

(lxx) the Bandaranaike Museum Committeeincorporated under the Bandaranaike MuseumCommittee (Incorporation) Act, No. 28 of1997 ;

(lxxi) the Geological Survey and Mines Bureauestablished under the Mines and Minerals Act,No. 33 of 1992 ;

(lxxii) the Commonwealth Development Corporation ;

(lxxiii) the India Sri Lanka Foundation incorporatedunder the Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 .

(b) the income of any local authority or Governmentinstitution, exclusive of

(i) the income of any trust or other matter vested inor administered by such authority or institution,being income to which such authority orinstitution is not beneficially entitled ; and

(ii) the profits and income for any periodcommencing on the date of acquisition or vesting,as the case may be, of any business undertakingacquired by or vested in the Government underthe Business Undertakings (Acquisition) Act, No.35 of 1971 ;

(c) the profits and income of

(i) the Government of any foreign country, beingprofits and income derived by that Governmenteither directly or through any agency of thatGovernment from aid granted in money, goods,services or in any other form by that Governmentto the Government of Sri Lanka ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200020

(ii) the Government of the Peoples Republic ofChina, or of any agency of that Government,being profits and income derived from thebusiness of ship-owner or charterer, and referredto in any agreement entered into between thatGovernment and the Government of Sri Lanka ;

(iii) a foreign currency banking unit from all off-shoretransactions of the unit.

For the purposes of this subparagraph anyforeign currency transaction which any foreigncurrency banking unit enters into, with any otherforeign currency banking unit, shall be deemedto be an off-shore transaction ;

(d) the profits and income of a charitable institution,being

(i) the profits of a business carried on by thatinstitution if such profits are applied solely to acharitable purpose of that institution and

(a) either the business is carried on in the courseof the actual carrying out of a primarypurpose of that institution or the work inconnection with the business is mainlyperformed by beneficiaries of that institution ;or

(b) such institution receives grants from theGovernment of Sri Lanka and is approvedby the Minister for the purposes of thisparagraph and the business is of a casualnature ;

(ii) the net annual value of

(a) any place of public worship and its premisesadministered by such institution ;

(b) any place or premises owned and occupiedby such institution solely for any of thepurposes of that institution ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200021

(iii) the profits and income from any property donatedby royal or other grant before March 2, 1815, toany place of public worship administered by suchinstitution, in so far as such profits and incomeare applied to the purposes for which such grantwas made ;

(e) the profits and income of any undertaking for operatingyachts and pleasure crafts registered with the Directorof Merchant Shipping if such undertaking is

(i) carried on by individuals who are not citizens ofSri Lanka or by a company the shares of whichare owned entirely by individuals who are notcitizens of Sri Lanka or by non-residentcompanies ; and

(ii) approved by the Minister ;

(f) the profits and income for any year of assessment ofany unit trust or mutual fund if not less than seventyper centum of such profits and income are distributedto its unit holders before the expiry of one year fromthe end of that year of assessment.

9.(1) There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) the emoluments, pension and any other benefitsarising to any person from the office of the Presidentof the Republic of Sri Lanka ;

(b) the offical emoluments paid to

(i) any individual who holds any paid office underthe Republic, out of the Consolidated Fund ;

(ii) any employee of any public corporation beinga public corporation which pays suchemolument or such pension or such profits fromemployment wholly or partly out of the sumsvoted annually by Parliament to suchcorporation from the Consolidated Fund ;

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain profits andincome of certainofficers andemployees.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200022

(iii) the Governor of any Province appointed underArticle 154B of the Constitution ;

(iv) any member of any Provincial Council ;

(v) any employee of any Provincial Council or toany officer of any Provincial Public Service ;

(vi) any member of any local authority ;

(vii) any employee of any local authority ;

(viii) any employee of any University which isestablished or deemed to be established by theUniversities Act, No. 16 of 1978 ;

(ix) any employee of the Institute of Policy Studiesof Sri Lanka, established by the Institute ofPolicy Studies of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1988 ;

(x) a member or employee of any board orcommission of inquiry established by or underany law being a board or commission all themembers of which are appointed by thePresident or by a Minister ;

and such pension or any such profits from employmentreferred to in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section4 as are received by any person in respect of pastservices performed by such person or by any otherperson whether before or after the commencement ofthis Act, as an officer or employee referred to in items(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), (v), (vi), (vii), (viii) or (ix) ;

(c) the emoluments arising in Sri Lanka and any incomenot arising in Sri Lanka of any individual who is ascientist, technician, expert or adviser, who is not acitizen of Sri Lanka and who is brought to andemployed in Sri Lanka by any undertaking, being anenterprise with which an agreement has been enteredinto by the Board of Investment under section 17 ofthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978 for the purposes of that undertaking :

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200023

Provided that the emoluments of an individual shallnot be exempt from income tax after the date of thecessation of employment of such individual in suchundertaking or the date on which the exemption fromtax granted, by such agreement ends whichever is theearlier ;

(d) the official emoluments, arising in Sri Lanka, and anyincome not arising in or derived from Sri Lanka of

(i) the Diplomatic Representative in Sri Lanka (bywhatever name or title designated) of theGovernment of any other country ;

(ii) any such member of the staff of any DiplomaticRepresentative referred to in subparagraph (i), anysuch Consul or Trade Commissioner, and anysuch member of the staff of such Consul or TradeCommissioner, as is a citizen or subject of thecountry represented by that DiplomaticRepresentative, Consul or Trade Commissioner,if the Minister, on being satisfied that acorresponding official of the Government of SriLanka resident in the country represented by thatperson is or would be granted similar exemptionfrom income tax by that country, declares thatthe exemption shall apply in that case :

Provided that the exemption shall not apply inthe case of any person if such person carries onor exercises in Sri Lanka any other employmentor any trade, business, profession or vocation ;

(iii) any expert, adviser, technician or official who isbrought to Sri Lanka by the Government of SriLanka through any Specialized Agency of theUnited Nations Organization, or under the PointFour Assistance programme of the Governmentof the United States of America, or through theColombo Plan Organization (including its

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200024

Technical Assistance Bureau) or through the AsiaFoundation or any other organization approvedby the Minister as being of a similar character,and whose salary or principal emolument is

(a) payable out of the funds provided by way ofgrant or other assistance to the Governmentof Sri Lanka by any such Organization,Programme or Foundation or any otherorganization as the case may be ; or

(b) not payable by the Government ofSri Lanka ;

(iv) any trainee from abroad who is sent to Sri Lankaunder any of the Technical Co-operationProgrammes of the United Nations Organizationand its Specialized Agencies, or of the ColomboPlan Organization, or of any other organizationapproved by the Minister as being of a similarcharacter ;

(v) any official of the United Nations Organizationwho is resident in Sri Lanka and who is not acitizen of Sri Lanka ;

(vi) members of any naval, military or air force ofany country other than Sri Lanka who are in SriLanka at the request, or with the concurrence, ofthe Government of Sri Lanka ;

(vii) persons employed in any civil capacity by theGovernment of any country other than Sri Lankawho, not being persons resident in Sri Lanka fora period exceeding three months immediatelyprior to the date of commencement of suchemployment, are so employed in or visit Sri Lankafor any purpose connected with the presence inSri Lanka, of such members of any naval, militaryor air forces as are referred to in sub-paragraph(vi) ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200025

(viii) any person who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka andwho is employed in Sri Lanka by the AsiaFoundation or by the Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund of Japan, or the CommonwealthSecretariat in any of its programmes for technicalco-operation with Sri Lanka, or theCommonwealth Development Corporation ;

Provided that the liability to income tax of any personreferred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v)as regards other income arising in or derived from SriLanka shall be the same as though he was a non-resident person ;

(e) the official emoluments of any citizen of Sri Lankawho is employed as an expert, technician or officialby the United Nations Organization or by anySpecialised Agency of that Organization ;

(f) the official emoluments of any individual who isemployed by the World Tourism Organization, theInternational Irrigation Management Institute, theColombo Plan Bureau, the Asian Development Bank,the World Bank, the International Committee of theRed Cross or the World Conservation Union ;

(g) the value of any travel warrant or passage granted to aperson who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka to enable himto come to Sri Lanka to assume duties or to visit hishome abroad, or to return from Sri Lanka on thetermination of his services, whether on retirement orotherwise, or of any travel warrant or pasage grantedto the wife or any son or daughter of such person tocome to Sri Lanka or to visit his or her home abroador to return from Sri Lanka on the termination of theservices of such person ;

(h) any allowance granted by an employer to his employeefor travelling, subsistence and lodging, in respect oftravel by such employee outside Sri Lanka inconnection with his employment ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200026

(i) the emoluments earned, or the pension arising, in anyyear of assessment, in foreign currency, by or to, anyindividual resident in Sri Lanka in respect of

(i) services rendered by him in that year ofassessment ; or

(ii) past services rendered by him or his spouse,

outside Sri Lanka in the course of any employmentcarried on, or exercised by him or his spouse, if suchemoluments or pension are paid to him in Sri Lankaor such emoluments or pension (less such amountexpended by such individual outside Sri Lanka as isconsidered by the Commissioner-General to bereasonable expenses) are remitted by him to SriLanka ;

(j) the emoluments earned in any year of assessment byany individual employed on a ship which is

(i) owned or chartered by a company registeredunder Part VIII of the Companies Act, No. 17of 1982 ; and

(ii) deemed to be a Sri Lanka ship by reason of adetermination made under paragraph (c) ofsection 30 of the Merchant Shipping Act,No. 52 of 1971 ;

(k) profits and income not exceeding in the aggregate fourthousand eight hundred rupees from all sources otherthan employment, derived by or arising or accruingto, an individual or any child whose total statutoryincome is aggregated with the income of thatindividual, if the total statutory income, for that yearof assessment, of that individual consists only of profitand income

(i) from employment not exceeding one hundredand fifty thousand rupees ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200027

(ii) not exceeding four thousand eight hundredrupees from all sources of profits and incomeother than employment,

and accordingly, where any income tax has been paidby deduction or otherwise, by such individual in anyyear of assessment, in respect of any profits andincome which are exempt under this paragraph suchtax shall, on an application in that behalf being madein writing by such individual within three years ofthe end of that year of assessment, be refunded tohim ;

(l) the value of any free transport by motor coach providedby an employer to an employee for travel by suchemployee, from his residence to his place of work orfrom place of work to his residence ;

(m) such part of any sum paid to an employee at the timeof his retirement, from any provident or pension fund,or the Employees Trust Fund established by theEmployees Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of 1980 asrepresents income derived by that fund, for any periodcommencing on or after April 1, 1987 frominvestments made by it ;

(n) such part of any sum referred to in paragraph (c) ofsubsection (i) of section 4 (1) paid to any employee atthe time of his retirement from any employment inany company formed under the Conversion of PublicCorporations or Government Owned BusinessUndertakings into Public Companies Act, No. 23 of1987, as is attributable to his period of service endingbefore April 1, 1997, in any public corporation or anyGovernment Owned Business Undertaking, as the casemay be ;

(o) such part of any sum referred to in paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 4 paid to any employee atthe time of his retirement from any employment inany public corporation other than any public

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200028

corporation referred to in subparagraph (ii) ofparagraph (b) of subsection (1), as is attributable tothe period of service of such employee prior to April1, 1997, in such public corporation ;

(p) any sum paid to any employee by the employer ofsuch employee, being a sum paid as compensationfor loss of any office or employment consequent to

(i) the voluntary retirement by such employee inaccordance with a scheme, which in the opinionof the Commissioner-General is uniformlyapplicable to all employees employed by suchemployer ; or

(ii) the retrenchment of such employee by suchemployer in accordance with a scheme approvedby the Commissioner of Labour.

(2) Nothing in paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection(1) shall apply to, or in relation to, any individual who is nota citizen of Sri Lanka and who

(a) has entered into a contract of employment ; or

(b) is brought to, and employed in, Sri Lanka,

with or by any undertaking, other than an undertaking beingan enterprise with which an agreement has been entered intoprior to December 31, 1994 on an application made in thatbehalf prior to November 11, 1993 by the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka under section 17 of the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of the proviso toparagraph (c) of subsection (1) and of subsection (2) theemoluments of any individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lankaand who is brought to and employed in Sri Lanka by anenterprise with which an agreement has been entered into bythe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17 of theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200029

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain interestreceived.

which has opted to be charged with income tax in lieu of theexemption from income tax granted under such agreement,shall be exempt from income tax up to the date of cessationof employment of such individual in such enterprise or thedate on which the exemption from income tax granted inrespect of such enterprise would, but for such option, haveended, whichever is the earlier.

10.There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) the accumulated interest payable to an individual inrespect of any Ceylon Savings Certificate issuedunder the Savings Certificates Ordinance or anyNational Savings Bank Certificate issued under theNational Savings Bank Act, No. 30 of 1971, andpurchased by that individual on or before November15, 1978 ;

(b) the interest accruing to any company, partnership orother body of persons outside Sri Lanka from anyloan granted by that company, partnership or bodyof persons to the Government of Sri Lanka or to anypublic corporation or to any Government institutionor to any commercial bank for the time beingoperating in Sri Lanka or to any other undertaking ifsuch loan is approved by the Minister as beingessential for the economic progress of Sri Lanka ;

(c) the interest accruing to any person or partnershipoutside Sri Lanka from any security, note or couponissued by the Government of Sri Lanka in respect ofa loan granted in foreign currency by that person orpartnership to the Government of Sri Lanka, if suchloan is approved by the Minister as being essentialfor the economic progress of Sri Lanka ;

(d) the interest accuring to any person from moneyslying to his credit in a special account opened byhim or on his behalf in a commercial bank with theapproval of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka for thedeposit in accordance with the conditions imposed

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200030

by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka, of sums obtainedby him by the exchange of foreign currency held byhim outside Sri Lanka ;

(e) the interest accruing to any person on moneys lyingto his credit, in foreign currency, in any accountopened by him, or on his behalf, in any commercialbank with the approval of the Central Bank of SriLanka ;

(f) any interest forming part of the surrender value ofany Tax Reserve Certificate ;

(g) the interest accruing to any person on moneys lyingto his credit in foreign currency with any foreigncurrency banking unit ;

(h) the interest accruing to any financial institution fromany loan granted by it to any venture capital companyestablished for the implementation of anyentrepreneur development programme of theGovernment, if the proceeds of such loan are utilizedby such company for the implementation of suchprogramme.

For the purpose of this paragraph financialinstitution means any company whose business orpart of whose business consists of the acceptance ofmoney by way of deposit or loan in the form ofdebenture or bond or in any other form, and thepayment of interest thereon.

11.There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) any dividend paid by a company with which anagreement has been entered into by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka under section 17 of theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978being an agreement which has been entered into priorto December 31, 1994, on an application made inthat behalf prior to November 11, 1993

(i) to any person, during the period for which theprofits and income of that company are exempt

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain dividends.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200031

from income tax under the terms of thatagreement or within one year thereafter, out ofthe profits and income of the company whichare exempt from income tax ;

(ii) to any person, who is not resident in Sri Lankanotwithstanding anything to the contrary insubsection (1) of section 48 ;

(b) any dividend paid by a flagship company with whichan agreement has been entered into by the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka to any shareholder duringthe period for which the profits and income of thatcompany are exempt from income tax under theterms of that agreement or within one year thereafterout of the profits and income of such company whichare exempt from income tax ;

In this paragraph, flagship company means anycompany which has entered into an agreement withthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka under section17 of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978 and which has, in accordance withsuch agreement, invested in Sri Lanka, within theperiod specified in such agreement, not less than fiftymillion United State of America Dollars or itsequivalent in any other foreign currency

(i) in the purchase or construction of anybuilding or in the purchase of any land, plant,machinery or furniture ; and

(ii) in the acquisition of any asset not includedin paragraph (i), for the use of theundertaking carried on by that company ;

(c) any dividend paid by a company with which anagreement has been entered into on or afterNovember 8, 1995 by the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka under section 17 of the Board of

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200032

Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978 to anyshareholder of that company during the period forwhich the profits and income of that company areexempt from income tax under the terms of thatagreement or within one year thereafter out of theprofits and income which are exempt from incometax ;

(d) any dividend out of the profits of any company withwhich an agreement has been entered into by theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4of 1978 from the operation by such company of ahospital with facilities for paying and non-payingpatients for indoor and outdoor treatment, paid toany share holder of such company during the periodof five years reckoned from the commencement ofthe year of assessment in which such hospitalcommences operations ;

(e) any dividend out of the profits within the meaningof paragraph (a) of section 3 of a company

(i) with which an agreement has been entered intoby the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka, undersection 17 of the Board of Investment of SriLanka Law, No. 4 of1978, and(ii) to which a mining license issued under theMines and Mineral Act, No. 33 of 1992, hasbeen assigned

paid to any shareholder of such company during theperiod for which the profits and income of thatcompany are chargeable with income tax at such rateas is determined in accordance with sub-paragraph(a) of the further proviso to paragraph (iv) ofregulation 2 of Regulations No. 1 of 1995 madeunder section 24 of the Board of Investment of SriLanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, as last amended byRegulation published in Gazette No. 1019/13 ofMarch 19, 1998 and specified in such agreement orwithin one year thereafter ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200033

(f) any dividend paid to a shareholder of a companyout of such profits and income of that companyarising on or after April 1, 1977, which are exemptfrom income tax under section 15, 17, 18, 19, or 20of this Act or section 8(a) (xxxviii), 15, 16A, 16B,16C, 16D, 17A, 17C, 17D, 17J, 17JJ, 17K, 17KK, 17L,17M, 18, 19, 20, 20A, 20B, 20C, 21, 22, 22A, 22B,22C, 22D, 22DDD or 22DDDD of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 28 of 1979 or under the Inland RevenueAct, No.4 of 1963, if such dividend is paid duringthe period for which such profits and income of thatcompany are exempt from income tax under any ofthose provisions or within one year thereafter ;

(g) any dividend paid to a shareholder of a company,out of any such dividend received by that companyas is referred to in paragraph (a) or (f), if the first-mentioned dividend is paid during any year ofassessment in which the second-mentioned dividendwas received by that company or within one yearthereafter ;

(h) any dividend paid to a shareholder of a companyout of any such dividend as is referred to in paragraph(a) or (f), received by that company through one ormore intermediary companies during the period forwhich the dividends referred to in paragraph (a) orparagraph (f) are exempt from income tax or withintwo years thereafter, if the first mentioned dividendis paid during the year of assessment in which thesecond mentioned dividend was received or withinone year thereafter.

12.(1) There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) the net annual value of not more than one place ofresidence owned by, and occupied by or on behalfof an individual ;

(b) the income accruing to the owner of a house for theyear of assessment in which the construction of that

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain profits andincome from landsand improvementsthereon.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200034

house was completed and for the six yearsassessment immediately succeeding that year ofassessment, if such house is used solely forresidential purposes and

(i) is occupied by the owner thereof ; or

(ii) has a floor area (inclusive of the thickness ofthe walls) of not exceeding two thousandsquare feet :

Provided that where the floor area of the house isone thousand and five hundred square feet or lessthe income accruing to the owner shall be exemptfrom income tax for the year of assessment in whichthe construction of that house was completed andfor the nine years of assessment immediatelysucceeding that year of assessment ;

(c) the income accruing to the owner of a house, theincome from which was or is not exempt fromincome tax under paragraph (b) of this subsectionand which house is converted into two or more placesof residence, each such place of residence beingseparately assessed for the purpose of rates, suchincome accruing being the income from any suchplace of residence for

(i) the year of assessment in which suchconversion was effected and for the five yearsof assessment immediately succeeding thatyear of assessment, if the floor area of suchplace of residence does not exceed onethousand square feet ; or

(ii) the year of assessment in which suchconversion was effected and for the three yearsof assessment immediately succeeding thatyear of assessment, if the floor area of suchplace of residence exceeds one thousandsquare feet but does not exceed two thousandsquare feet ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200035

(d) the net annual value of any land and improvementsthereon owned by a body of persons the primaryobject of which is the promotion of any sport whichis recognized as a sport for the purposes of the SportsLaw, No. 25 of 1973 and used for that object by thatbody.

(2) For the purposes of this section owner includes aco-owner.

13.There shall be exempt from income tax any sum paidto any person as a subsidy or grant

(a) out of the Capital Fund established under the SriLanka Tea Board Law, No. 14 of 1975 ;

(b) out of the Rubber Replanting Subsidy Fundestablished under the Rubber Replanting SubsidyAct, (chapter 437) ;

(c) by the Coconut Cultivation Board established underthe Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971 ;

(d) by the Ministry of Fisheries for the purchase by suchperson of fishing boats, marine engines, fishing gearand other fishing equipment ;

(e) out of the Export Development Fund established bythe Sri Lanka Export Development Act, No. 40 of1979 ;

(f) under any other scheme for the planting or replantingof any other agricultural product ;

(g) out of the Mill Development Fund administered bythe Coconut Development Authority establishedunder the Coconut Development Act, No. 46 of 1971,for the modernization of machinery.

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain subsidies.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200036

14.(1) There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) any capital gain arising on

(i) the sale by any individual, or the acquisition bythe State, of any house constructed by suchindividual and used solely for residentialpurposes, such sale being the first sale of thathouse ;

(ii) the sale by any individual, or the acquisition bythe State, of any house owned by such individualand used solely for residential purposes, if suchindividual has not sold or the State has notacquired from that individual on or afterApril 1, 1978, any house other than a housereferred to in sub-paragraph (i) ;

(iii) the sale to a customer, of any property held bythe vendor primarily for sale to customers inthe ordinary course of his trade or business ;

(iv) the sale of any property by any person, beingproperty used by him in producing income inany trade, business, profession, vocation oremployment carried on or exercised by him andin respect of which an allowance fordepreciation has been granted under section 23,if the full proceeds of sale are used within oneyear of the sale, for the replacement of suchproperty to be used by such person for producingincome in any trade, business, profession,vocation or employment carried on or exercisedby him ;

(v) the passing of any property subject to a trustfrom the trustee to any beneficiary under thetrust ;

(vi) the passing of any property belonging to theestate of a deceased person from his executorto any testate or intestate heir of the deceased ;

Exemption fromincome tax ofcertain capitalgains.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200037

(vii) the passing of any property to any person, onthe death of the owner of that property ;

(viii) the passing of any property occurring on the giftof that property by its owner to any otherperson ;

(ix) the passing of any property, being shares in anycompany incorporated in Sri Lanka with whichan agreement has been entered into by the Boardof Investment of Sri Lanka under section 17 ofthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978, from the owner of that propertyto any other person by way of sale, gift orotherwise ;

(x) change of ownership of any motor vehicle inrespect of which a deduction for depreciationhas not been allowed under subsection (1) ofsection 23 of this Act or under section 23 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 or undersection 10 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 4 of1963 or of any household effect or other articleof personal use (excluding jewellery) ;

(xi) change of ownership of a right to exploit aproperty occurring by a transfer of that right ;

(xii) the surrender of a life insurance policy ; and thesurrender, transfer or extinction of a life interest ;

(xiii) the change of ownership of any share in a quotedpublic company ;

(xiv) the transfer, upon the conversion of a businesscarried on by an individual, either solely or inpartnership with others, into a quoted publiccompany, of any part of the capital assets of suchbusiness to such company, but only if, such partof those assets as were acquired for that business

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200038

prior to March 31, 1977 are transferred to thatcompany at a price not exceeding the marketvalue of those assets on March 31, 1977 ;

(xv) the transfer upon the conversion of a businesscarried on by an individual, either solely or inpartnership with others, into a limited liabilitycompany not being a company referred to inparagraph (xiv), of the capital assets of suchbusiness to such company if but only if not lessthan eighty per centum of the shares of suchcompany are held in any case where suchbusiness.

(A) was a sole proprietorship, by the formerproprietor ; or

(B) was a partnership, by the former partnersin the same proportion in which profitsof the partnership were shared ;

(xvi) the change of ownership of any property,occurring not less than twenty-five years afterthe date of acquisition of such property by theperson to whom such gain arises ;

(xvii) the sale, by any venture capital companyreferred to in section 22DDD of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 of any share orstock, held by it in any other company ;

(xviii) the sale, by any unit trust or any mutual fundreferred to in section 22DDDD, of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 of any share orstock held by such unit trust or mutual fund inany other company ;

(xix) the sale, by any person of any unit held by suchperson in any unit trust or any mutual fund afterone year from the date of acquisition by suchperson, of such unit ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200039

(xx) the sale, by any person of any treasury bill heldby such person, in the secondary market ;

(xxi) the relinquishment or transfer of any right to ashare received under a rights issue or a bonusissue of a quoted public company ;

(xxii) the sale by any person of any treasury bond,registered stock or any other security issuedunder the Registered Stock and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) and held by suchperson, in the secondary market ;

(xxiii) the sale, by any person, of any bond, debentureor other debt instrument issued by any companyand held by such person, being a bond,debenture or other debt instrument which, at thetime of such sale is quoted in any official listpublished by any Stock Exchange licensed bythe Securities and Exchange Commission ofSri Lanka ;

(xxiv) change of ownership of any

(A) share warrant ; or

(B) financial instrument which is derived fromand dependant on another financialinstrument,

issued by any company and which at the timeof such change of ownership, is quoted in anyofficial list published by any Stock Exchangelicensed by the Securities and ExchangeCommission of Sri Lanka ;

(b) the aggregate amount of the capital gain of anyperson for any year of assessment which arises inrespect of movable property other than stocks, shares,debentures or debenture stocks, if such aggregateamount does not exceed two thousand rupees ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200040

(c) the first five thousand rupees of the capital gain ofany person for any year of assessment, if such personhas a total assessable income for the three years ofassessment immediately preceding that year ofassessment which is less than the total of theallowances which under subsection (1) of section30 of this Act, or subsection (1), of section 30 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979, are required tobe deducted from his assessable income in arrivingat his taxable income for those three years ofassessment.

(2) For the purposes of sub-paragraphs (xxii) and (xxiia)of paragraph (a) of subsection (1), capital gain means theexcess, if any, of the capital gain computed in accordancewith the provisions of subsection (2) and (4) of section 7,over such part of the interest which but for such sale, wouldhave accrued to such person in respect of such bill, bond,stock or other security had such bill, bond, stock or othersecurity been held by such person until such bill, bond, stockor other security matured, as is attributable to the period duringwhich such bill, bond, stock or other security was held bysuch person.

15.There shall be exempt from income tax

(a) the emoluments earned in any year of assessment inforeign currency by any individual resident in SriLanka, in respect of services rendered by him in thatyear of assessment outside Sri Lanka in the courseof any profession or vocation carried on or exercisedby him, if such emoluments (less such amountexpended by such individual outside Sri Lanka as isconsidered by the Commissioner General to bereasonable personal expenses) are remitted by himto Sri Lanka ;(b) the income accruing to a person receiving instructionat any university, college, school or other educationalestablishment from a scholarship, exhibition,bursary, or similar educational endowment ;(c) any capital sum received by way of death gratuity oras compensation for death or injuries ;

Miscellaneousexemptions fromincome tax.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200041

(d) any sum received by an informer as a reward underany scheme for the payment of rewards by aGovernment institution ;(e) wound and disability pensions granted to membersor ex-members of the Forces of Her Majesty theQueen of the United Kingdom ;

(f) United States Government disability pensions ;

(g) any prize received at a lottery conducted by theNational Savings Bank, by the holder of any bondissued by that Bank on which interest is not payableby that Bank ;

(h) any royalty received by a non-resident person froma company with which an agreement has beenentered into by the Board of Investment of Sri Lankaunder section 17 of the Board of Investment of SriLanka Law, No. 4 of 1978, in respect of any periodduring which the profits and income of that companyare exempt from income tax under the terms of thatagreement :

Provided that where such company opts, in lieuof the exemption from income tax under the termsof such agreement, to be charged with income tax,the exemption from income tax granted by thisparagraph shall apply to any royalty received by anynon resident person from such company in respectof the period during which the profits and income ofsuch company would, but for such option, have beenso exempt from income tax ;

(i) the profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3 arising to any person fromthe sale of gold, gems or jewellery ;

(j) the profits and income arising in Sri Lanka, to theconsignor or consignee, from the export of

(i) any precious stones or metals not mined in SriLanka ;(ii) any petroleum, gas or petroleum product ; or

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200042

(iii) such other products as may be approved bythe Minister for the purposes of this paragraphhaving regard to the foreign exchange benefitsthat are likely to accrue to the country fromthe export of such products,

being stones, metals, petroleum, gas or products asthe case may be, brought to Sri Lanka on aconsignment basis, and re-exported, withoutsubjecting such stones metals, petroleum, gas orproducts, as the case may be, to any process ormanufacture ;

(k) any prize received by a person as an award made bythe President of the Republic of Sri Lanka ;

(l) any prize received by a person as an award made bythe Government in recognition of an inventioncreated, or any research undertaken, by such person ;

(m) the profits and income arising to any person from anundertaking approved by the Minister for theoperation and maintenance of facilities for thestorage of goods or commodities brought into SriLanka for re-export ;

(n) any sum received by a person from the PresidentsFund established by the Presidents Fund Act, No. 7of 1978 ;

(o) any sum received by a person from the NationalDefence Fund established by the National DefenceFund Act, No. 9 of 1985 ;

(p) such part of any sum as does not exceed threethousand rupees paid by the Sri Lanka Bureau ofForeign Employment, established by the Sri LankaBureau of Foreign Employment Act, No. 21 of 1985,to any person or partnership licensed by such Bureau,to carry on business of a foreign employment agency,in respect of any Sri Lankan for whom employmentoutside Sri Lanka has been provided or secured bysuch person or partnership ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200043

(q) such part of any sum as does not exceed threethousand rupees received in any year of assessmentby the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employmentestablished by the Sri Lanka Bureau of ForeignEmployment Act, No. 21 of 1985, in respect of anySri Lankan for whom employment outside Sri Lankahas been provided or secured by such Bureau ;

(r) such part of any sum or the aggregate of sums asdoes not exceed one hundred thousand rupeesreceived by any individual as an award or awards inrecognition of his excellence in the field of fine arts,literature or sports, being an award made with theprior written approval of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of fine arts, literature, or sports, as thecase may be ;

(s) any interest or discount accruing to the Sudu NelumMovement established by the Government andregistered under section 114 of the Trust Ordinancebeing interest or discount on any sum of moneydeposited by the Sudu Nelum Movement with anycommercial bank ;

(t) the relevant part of the profits and income withinthe meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3, arising oraccruing to any primary dealer.

For the purposes of this paragraph

(i) the expression relevant part in relationto the profits and income and to anyprimary dealer means the profits andincome of such primary dealer fromdealing, in the secondary market, in anytreasury bill, treasury bond, registeredstock or other security issued under theRegistered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (chapter 420) and held by suchprimary dealer, after deducting from suchprofits and income such part of the interest

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200044

or discount which would have accrued inrespect of such bill, bond, stock or othersecurity had such bill, bond, stock or othersecurity been held by such primary dealeruntil such bill, bond, stock or othersecurity matured, as is attributable to theperiod during which such bill, bond, stockor other security is held by such primarydealer ;

(ii) the expression primary dealer meansany financier or bank appointed by theMonetary Board of the Central Bank ofSri Lanka under the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417) or theRegistered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) and functioningas a primary dealer in treasury bills,treasury bond, registered stock or othersecurity ;

(u) any profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, derived by, or arising oraccruing to any person from the sale of any bond,debenture or other debt instrument issued by acompany and held by him being a bond, debentureor other debt instrument which at the time of suchsale is quoted in any official list published by anyStock Exchange licensed by the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka ;

(v) any profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, derived by, or accruingto, any person, from the sale of any share in anyquoted public company ; and

(w) the profits and income earned in any year ofassessment in foreign currency by any NationalAssociation of Sports registered under the SportsLaw, No. 25 of 1973, in respect of services renderedby such Association, or in the course of taking part

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200045

in any sport within the meaning of the Sports Law,in that year of assessment outside Sri Lanka, if suchprofits and income (less such amount as theCommissioner-General considers to be reasonableexpenses incurred outside Sri Lanka) are remittedby such Association to Sri Lanka.

16.(1) The profits and income of any resident guest

(a) not being profits and income arising in or, derivedfrom Sri Lanka ; and

(b) accruing from moneys lying to his credit in anyaccount opened by him in a commercial bank forthe deposit of sums remitted to him in foreigncurrency from any country outside Sri Lanka,

shall be exempt from income tax.

(2) For the purpose of this section resident guest meansa person to whom a tax exemption has been granted underthe Resident Guest (Tax Exemption) Act, No. 6 of 1979.

17.(1) The profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3 (other than any profits and incomefrom the sale of capital assets) of any company from anyundertaking referred to in subsection (2), shall be exempt fromincome tax for a period of five years such period of five yearsbeing calculated from the date on which such undertakingcommenced to carry on business.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall apply to anycompany which is approved by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette

(a) being a company which is engaged only in carryingon one or more of the undertakings hereinafterspecified, namely, an undertaking for

(i) animal husbandry ;

Exemption fromincome tax forfive years of theprofits and incomeof certaincompanies.

Exemption ofcertain profits andincome of anyresident guest.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200046

(ii) the cultivation of land with any plant ofwhatever description other than tea, rubber,coconut or paddy ;

(iii) marine or inland fisheries ;

(iv) carrying on any activity referred to in any ofthe foregoing sub-paragraphs and processingthe product of such activity ;

(v) the production from any agricultural produceof Sri Lanka of such commodities as may bespecified by the Minister, by Order publishedin the Gazette, having regard to the need toprovide incentives for the production of suchcommodities ;

(b) being a company which is an Export ProductionVillage Company.

(3) For the purpose of this section Export ProductionVillage Company means a company

(a) which is a peoples company within the meaning ofthe Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 ;

(b) the shareholders of which are the ExportDevelopment Board established by the Sri LankaExport Development Act, No. 40 of 1979, and theproducers of any of the products produced by thatcompany ; and

(c) the products of which are exported by the companyor through any other company engaged in the exportof goods or commodities :

Provided that this section shall not apply to any companywhich carries on an undertaking which had commenced tocarry on business prior to November 17, 1983, or which wasformed by the splitting up or reconstruction of any businesswhich was in existence prior to November 17, 1983.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200047

18.The profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3 (other than any profits and incomefrom the sale of capital assets), of any person or partnershipfrom any undertaking which commences business on or afterApril 1, 2000, for the provision of services of refrigeratedtransport or cold-room-storage or other services ancillarythereto, shall be exempt from income tax for a period of fiveyears reckoned from the commencement of the year ofassessment in which such undertaking commences to carryon business.

19.(1) The profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3 (other than any profits and incomefrom the sale of capital assets), of any company from anyspecified undertaking referred to in subsection (2) whichcommences business on or after April, 1 2000, shallnotwithstanding the provisions of section 40 be exempt fromincome tax for a period of ten years reckoned from thecommencement of the year of assessment in which suchcompany commences to carry on business.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) specifiedundertaking in relation to any company is an undertakingcarried on by such company and which is engaged in

(a) cultivating land with plants of whatever descriptionother than tea, rubber and coconut ; or

(b) the production of planting materials certified by theDepartment of Agriculture as being of high quality,for cultivation referred to in paragraph (a) ; or

(c) carrying out research work for improving the qualityand character of planting materials for cultivationof land referred to in paragraph (a).

20.(1) The profits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, (other than any profits from thesale of capital assets), of any company from any specifiedundertaking referred to in subsection (2) and which

Exemption fromincome tax of theprofits and incomeof anyundertaking whichprovides certainservices.

Exemption fromincome tax of theprofits and incomeof any companyengaged in non-plantationagriculturalactivities.

Exemption fromincome tax ofprofits andincome of acompany

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200048

commences business on or after April 1, 2000 shall,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Chapter IX, beexempt from income tax for a period of ten years reckonedfrom the commencement of the year of assessment in whichsuch undertaking commences to carry on business.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), specifiedundertaking in relation to any company and to any year ofassessment means an undertaking carried on by that companyand which is engaged in

(i) the export of any fresh or processed vegetables orfruits ; and

(ii) the cultivation of land not less than five acres inextent with vegetables or fruits in that year ofassessment.

In this section, vegetables include betel leaves.

21.Where any person who carries on an undertaking forthe construction and sale of houses or flats, being anundertaking approved by the Commissioner for NationalHousing having regard to the housing policy of theGovernment sells any house or flat, the floor area of whichdoes not exceed two thousand square feet and the constructionof which was commenced by such person on or after January1, 1977, such sale being the first sale of that house or flat,seventy-five per centum of the profits and income arising fromsuch sale shall be exempt from income tax.

22.Where the Commissioner-General is satisfied thatany company approved by the Minister under section 17 hasnot taken any step to commence business within a period ofone year from the date on which the Minister has approvedsuch company, he shall recommend to the Minister that suchapproval be cancelled, and upon such recommendation, theMinister may, having regard to the interests of the economy,by Order published in the Gazette, cancel such approval.

which exportsfresh orprocessedvegetables orfruits andcultivatesvegetables orfruits.

Power ofCommissioner-General torecommendcancellation ofapproval grantedunder section 17.

Exemption fromincome tax ofprofits from theconstruction andfirst sale of certainhouses.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200049

CHAPTER IV

ASCERTAINMENT OF PROFITS OR INCOME

23.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and(4), there shall be deducted for the purpose of ascertainingthe profits or income of any person from any source, alloutgoings and expenses incurred by such person in theproduction thereof, including

(a) an allowance equal to the sum expended by suchperson in the purchase of any implement orequipment for any undertaking of deep-sea or off-shore fishing carried on by such person ;

(b) an allowance for depreciation by wear and tear of

(i) any plant, machinery or fixtures (other thanplant, machinery or fixtures referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) or sub-paragraph (iii)), acquiredby such person and arising out of their use, inany trade, business, profession or vocation,carried on, or exercised, by such person at therate of fifty per centum per annum, on its costof acquisition ;

(ii) any motor vehicle, lorry, bus, tractor or trailer(other than any motor coach referred to in sub-paragraph (iii)), or any office furnitureacquired by such person and arising out of itsuse, in any trade, business, profession orvocation carried on or exercised, by him, atthe rate of twenty-five per centum per annumon its cost of acquisition ;

(iii) any motor coach acquired by such person andused for transporting employees of such personto, or from, their place of work, at the rate ofone hundred per centum on its cost ofacquisition ;

Ascertainment ofprofits or income.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200050

(iv) any qualified building constructed by suchperson and arising out of its use in any trade,business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by him, at the rate of six and two-third per centum per annum on its cost ofconstruction ;

(v) any unit of non-residential accommodationcomprised in a registered CondominiumProperty within the meaning of the ApartmentOwnership Law No, 11 of 1973, acquired bysuch person and arising out of its use in anytrade, business, profession or vocation carriedon or exercised by him, at the rate of six andtwo third per centum per annum on its cost ofacquisition :

Provided that no deduction under the precedingprovisions of this paragraph shall be allowed to aperson in respect of any capital assets referred to insub-paragraph (i), or sub-paragraph (ii), or sub-paragraph (iii) or sub-paragraph (iv) or sub-paragraph (v) or this paragraph, in respect of whichthe total of the allowances granted for depreciationin the preceding years of assessments is equal to thecost of acquisition or the cost of construction, as thecase may be, of such capital asset ;

(c) a sum equal to one-tenth of any payment made, bysuch person as consideration for the licensing, in hisfavour, of any manufacturing process used by himin any trade or business carried on by him :

Provided that no deduction under the provisionsof this paragraph shall be allowed to any person inrespect of any such payment if the total of the sumsdeducted in the preceding years of assessment isequal to the amount of such payment ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200051

(d) an allowance in respect of any computer softwareacquired by him during the period of which theprofits and income are being ascertained and usedby him in any trade, business, profession, or vocationcarried on or exercised by him, such allowance beingan amount equal, to fifty per centum of the cost ofacquisition of such computer software :

Provided that no deduction under the precedingprovisions of this paragraph shall be allowed to anyperson in respect of any computer software if thetotal of the allowances granted in the preceding yearsof assessment in respect of such computer softwareis equal to the cost of acquisition of such computersoftware ;

(e) any sum expended by such person for the renewalof any capital asset employed by such person forproducing such profits or income, if no allowancefor the depreciation thereof is deductible in respectof that asset ;

(f) any sum expended by such person for the repair (notrenewal) of any plant, machinery, fixtures, building,implement, utensil or article employed for producingsuch profits and income :

Provided that the sum deductible under thisparagraph shall, in the case of a company carryingon the business of letting premises for commercialpurposes, not exceed ten per centum of the grossrent receivable by such company for such premises ;

(g) a sum equal to the bad debts incurred by such personin any trade, business, profession, vocation oremployment which have become bad debts duringthe period for which the profits are being ascertainedand such sum as the Commissioner-Generalconsiders reasonable for doubtful debts to the extentthat they are estimated to have become bad during

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200052

that period, notwithstanding that such bad or doubtfuldebts were due and payable prior to thecommencement of that period :

Provided that all sums recovered during thatperiod on account of the amounts previously writtenoff or allowed in respect of bad or doubtful debtsshall for the purposes of this Act be treated as receiptsof that period of that trade, business, profession,vocation or employment ;

(h) interest paid or payable by such person ;

(i) any contribution by an employer, to a pension,provident or savings fund, or to a provident or savingssociety, which is approved by the Commissioner-General subject to such conditions as he mayspecify ;

(j)(i) any turnover tax payable under the TurnoverTax Act, No. 69 of 1981, less any deductionallowable under section 47 or section 48 orsection 48A of that Act ; or

(ii) tax corresponding to turnover tax referred toin sub-paragraph (i) and payable, under anystatute enacted by any Provincial Council,

which such person is liable to pay for the periodfor which the profits and income are beingascertained in respect of any trade, business,profession or vocation carried on or exercised byhim :

Provided that where at the time of making anyassessment it appears to an Assessor that any suchtax so payable has not been paid, he may refuse toallow any deduction in respect of such tax :

Provided further that where it appears to anAssessor that any such tax in respect of which adeduction has been refused, has been paid within a

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200053

period of three years from the end of the year ofassessment to which such assessment relates, heshall, on an application made in writing withintwelve months of making such payment andsupported by such proof as he may require makean amended assessment allowing such deductionnotwithstanding the provisions of section 142, andany tax found to have been paid in excess as a resultof such amended assessment shall be refundednotwithstanding the provisions of section 169 ;

(k) the expenditure incurred by such person in carryingon any scientific, industrial or agricultural researchfor the development of the trade or business carriedon by such person ;

(l) any expenses incurred by such person in(i) opening up any land for cultivation or for animalhusbandry ; or(ii) cultivating such land with plants of whateverdescription ; or(iii) the purchase of livestock or poultry to be rearedon such land ; or(iv) the construction of tanks or ponds or the clearingor preparation of any inland waters for therearing of fish and the purchase of fish to bereared in such tank, pond or inland waters, asthe case may be ;

(m) the actual expenses incurred by such person or anyother person in his employ in travelling within SriLanka in connection with the trade, businessprofession or vocation of the first-mentioned person :

Provided that no deduction under the precedingprovisions of this paragraph shall be allowed to anyperson(i) in respect of expenses incurred in relation to avehicle belonging to and maintained by himand used partly for the purposes of his trade,business, profession or vocation and partly for

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200054

the domestic or private purposes of anexecutive officer in his employ unless suchexecutive officer has reimbursed such personthe expenses actually incurred by him in theuse of such vehicle for the private or domesticpurposes of such executive officer or wheresuch expenses actually incurred cannot beascertained, such sum as the Assessorconsiders to be the amount so incurred ; or(ii) in respect of any expenses incurred by suchperson by reason of any travelling done by anyother person in his employ between theresidence of such other person and his placeof employment or vice versa ;

(n) in the case of a company, expenditure incurred inthe formation or of that company ;

(o) the expenditure incurred by such person in operatinga motor coach used for transporting employees ofsuch person to and from their place of work ;

(p) the expenditure incurred by such person in thepayment of gratuity to an employee on thetermination of employment of such employee dueto cessation of the trade, business, profession orvocation carried on by such person ;

(q) any annual payment made by such person to anyfund, approved for the purposes of this paragraph,by the Commissioner-General and maintained forthe purposes of payment, under the Payment ofGratuity Act, No. 12 of 1983, of gratuities toemployees on the termination of their services ;

(r) such part of the lump sum payment made by suchperson to any other person in connection with theletting, or lease, to the first-mentioned person of anycommercial premises as bears to the total lump sumpayment the same proportion as the number ofmonths in the year for which lease rent is payablebears to the total number of months comprised inthe lease ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200055

(s) any sum paid, by a public corporation or GovernmentOwned Business Undertaking as a special levy, tothe Government.

(t) expenditure incurred by any person in the training,in any recognized institution for a period notexceeding sixty days, of any employee employed bysuch person in any trade or business carried on bysuch person, if it is proved to the satisfaction of theCommissioner-General that such training is

(i) directly relevant to the duties performed bysuch employee before the commencement ofsuch training ;(ii) essential for upgrading the skills orperformance of such employee, in such tradeor business ; and(iii) necessary for improving the efficiency andperformance of such trade or business.

For the purposes of this paragraph,

(A) training includes participation in anyseminar or workshop ;

(B) employee includes any partner of anypartnership carrying on a profession.

(2) Where any person is entitled to a deduction in respectof any outgoing or expense under two or more paragraphs ofsubsection (1), in ascertaining the profits and income of suchperson from any source such person shall be allowed adeduction only under one such paragraph.

(3) Where any person disposes of any capital asset usedby him in producing the profits and income of any trade,business, profession or vocation carried on, or exercised, byhim and

(a) an allowance for depreciation equal to the cost ofacquisition or the cost of construction, as the casemay be, of such capital asset has been granted inrespect of that capital asset, such part of the proceeds

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200056

of disposal as is not in excess of the cost ofacquisition or the cost of construction, as the casemay be, of such capital asset shall, whether suchdisposal takes place while such trade, business,profession or vocation continues or after its cessation,be treated as a receipt of such trade, business,profession or vocation, in ascertaining the profits andincome, within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3, of such trade, business, profession orvocation ;

(b) an allowance for depreciation has been granted inrespect of that capital asset but the total amount ofsuch allowance is less than the cost of acquisition orthe cost of construction, as the case may be, of suchcapital asset the proceeds of disposal as is not inexcess of the cost of acquisition or the cost ofconstruction as the case may be, of such capital assetover the difference between the cost of acquisitionor the cost of construction, as the case may be, ofsuch capital asset and the total allowance fordepreciation granted in respect of such capital assetshall whether such disposal takes place while suchtrade, business, profession or vocation continues orafter its cessation, be treated as a receipt of such trade,business, profession or vocation, in ascertaining theprofits and income of such trade business, professionor vocation within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3 :

Provided that where such difference exceeds theproceeds of such disposal, the excess shall be treatedfor the purposes of subsection (1) as an expenseincurred in the production of income :

Provided further that nothing in this paragraph shallapply to

(a) the transfer of any such capital asset to acompany referred to in section 14(1)(a) (xv) onthe conversion of a business carried on by anindividual either solely or in partnership to suchcompany ; or

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200057

(b) the disposal by any person, of any such capitalasset, if the full proceeds of disposal are usedby such person, within one year of the disposalfor the replacement of such capital asset to beused by him for producing income in any tradebusiness profession, vocation or employmentcarried on or exercised by him ; or(c) where a person carrying on any undertaking theprofit and income of which are wholly or partlyexempt from income tax under this Act, disposesof any capital asset used for the purposes of thatundertaking, such person shall be liable toincome tax on an amount equal to the amountascertained under paragraph (a) or paragraph(b).

(4) Subject as hereinafter provided, income arising frominterest shall be the full amount of interest falling due whetherreceived or not, without any deduction for outgoing orexpenses :

Provided that(a) where it appears to an Assessor that any interest isunpaid and cannot be recovered, any assessment whichincludes such interest shall, notwithstanding theprovisions of section 142, be reduced by the amountof the interest included which has been shown to beunpaid and irrecoverable or, if income tax has beenpaid in respect of such interest, such tax may berefunded on a claim in writing made within three yearsof the end of the year of assessment in respect of whichsuch tax was paid ;(b) where any interest falling due in any year ofassessment in respect of a loan has not been receivedand is likely to be irrecoverable, the person to whomsuch interest is due may exclude such interest fromthe profits and income chargeable with income taxfor that year of assessment ;(c) where it appears to an Assessor that any interest whichhas been excluded from an assessment underparagraph (b) has subsequently been received and that

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200058

income tax has not been paid in respect of suchinterest, he shall, notwithstanding anything insubsection (5) of section 134 limiting the period withinwhich an assessment or additional assessment maybe made, make an assessment or additional assessmentincluding such interest.

(5) No deduction under paragraph (a), or paragraph (b),or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d), or paragraph (e), orparagraph (f), or paragraph (g), or paragraph (h) of subsection(1) in respect of any capital asset shall be allowed to any personif

(a) such person has let on hire such capital asset(i) to any undertaking the whole or any part, of theprofits and income within the meaning ofparagraph (a) of section 3, of which are exemptfrom income tax ; or(ii) for the use in any undertaking carried on by theperson from whom it was acquired or by anymember of the family of that person or anymember of his family in partnership with anyother person or persons ; or

(b) such person uses such capital asset in any undertakingcarried on by him in partnership with the person fromwhom it was acquired or with any member of thefamily of the person from whom it was acquired :

Provided that the provision of sub paragraph (i) ofparagraph (a) shall not apply in respect of any capital assetlet on hire by any person if such person is a company engagedin the business of letting capital assets on hire.

(6) The profits and income received by one spouse forservices rendered in any trade, business, profession or vocationcarried on or exercised

(a) by the other spouse ; or(b) by a partnership of which that other spouse is a partner,shall be deemed to be the profits and income of that otherspouse.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200059

(7) For the purposes of this section

(a) allowance for depreciation, in relation to any capitalasset, means any allowance which shall be deductedin respect of that asset under

(i) paragraph (a), paragraph (b) or paragraph (d)of subsection (1) of this section.

(ii) paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c)or paragraph (d) or paragraph (e) or paragraph(ee) or paragraph (eee) or paragraph (eeeee) ofsubsection (1) of section 23 of Act. No. 28 of1979 ;

(iii) paragraph (a) or paragraph (h) or paragraph (i)or paragraph (1) or paragraph (m) or paragraph(n) or paragraph (o) or paragraph (p) ofsubsection (1) of section 10 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 4 of 1963 ; or

(b) capital asset in relation to a trade, business,profession or vocation means plant, machinery, fixture,fittings, utensils, articles or equipment used for thepurpose of producing the income in such tradebusiness, profession or vocation or buildingconstructed for the purposes of such trade, business,profession or vocation ;

(c) proceeds in relation to the disposal of any capitalasset means

(i) the sale price of such asset, where the disposalis by sale ; or

(ii) the market value of such asset at the time ofdisposal, where the disposal is otherwise thanby sale,

after deducting from such sale price or market value, as thecase may be, the amount of goods and services tax chargeableunder the Goods Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996, on thedisposal of such capital asset if such tax is included in suchsale price or market value, as the case may be ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200060

(d) disposal, in relation to the disposal of any capitalasset by any person includes

(i) sale, exchange, or other transfer in any mannerwhatsoever of such asset by such person ;

(ii) discard of such asset by such person ;

(iii) cessation of the use of such asset by such personin any undertaking carried on by him inascertaining the profits and income ofwhich, an allowance for depreciation could bededucted ;

(e) qualified building means a building constructed tobe used for the purpose of a trade, business, professionor vocation other than to be used as a dwelling houseby an executive officer employed in that trade,business, profession or vocation ;

(f)(i)where any capital asset which is used in anytrade, business, profession or vocation carriedon or exercised by any person and in respect ofwhich an allowance for depriciation has beengranted is sold, and the full proceeds of saleused, within one year of the sale, for theacquisition of another capital asset to replacethe capital asset so sold, and to be used in suchtrade, business, profession or vocation, the costof acquisition of such other capital asset shallbe deemed to be the difference between theactual cost of acquisition of such other capitalasset and the profits from the sale of the capitalasset sold ;

For the purposes of this sub-paragraph theprofits from the sale, in relation to any capitalasset, shall be the excess of the proceeds of saleof such asset over the difference between

(a) the cost of acquisition or the cost ofconstruction, as the case may be, of suchasset ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200061

Deductions notallowed inascertainingprofits andincome.

(b) the total allowance for depreciation grantedin respect of such capital asset ;

(ii) where any plant, machinery or fixtures isacquired otherwise than by way of purchase, byany person to be used in any trade, business,profession or vocation carried on or exercisedby him, the cost of acquisition of such plant,machinery or fixtures shall be the market valueof such plant, machinery or fixtures, on the dateof such acquisition ;

(iii) where any capital asset of a business carried onby an individual, either solely or in partnershipwith others, is transferred, to a company referredto in paragraph (xv) of subsection (1) of section14, the cost of acquisition of such capital assetby such company shall be deemed to be the costof acquisition of such capital asset by suchindividual or partnership reduced by the amountof any allowance for depreciation grantedinrespect of such asset to such individual orpartnership and the date of acquisition of suchcapital asset shall be deemed to be the date ofacquisition of such capital asset by suchindividual or partnership ;

(iv) where any person is entitled under the Goodsand Services Tax Act, No. 34 of 1996, to claimcredit for input tax paid in relation to theacquisition or the construction of any capitalasset, the cost of acquisition or the cost ofconstruction, as the case may be, of such capitalasset shall not include such input tax.

24.(1) For the purpose of ascertaining the profits orincome of any person from any source, no deduction shall beallowed in respect of

(a) domestic or private expenses, including the cost oftravelling between the residence of such person andhis place of business or employment ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200062

(b) expenses incurred in connection with his employmentother than the expenses referred to in paragraph (g)and paragraph (i) of subsection (1) of section 23 ;

(c) any expenditure incurred in travelling outside SriLanka in connection with any trade, business, notbeing a business referred to in paragraph (d),profession or vocation carried on or exercised in SriLanka by such person, other than the expenses incurredin travelling outside Sri Lanka solely in connectionwith the

(i) promotion of the export trade of any article orgoods ; or(ii) provision of any services for payment in foreigncurrency ; or(iii) training referred to in paragraph (t) of subsection(1) of section 23, where such expenditure isdeductible in accordance with such paragraph ;(d) any expenditure incurred in travelling outside SriLanka in connection with the business of anyundertaking of operating any hotel for tourists, carriedon by such person, other than

(i) the expenditure incurred in travelling outside SriLanka solely in carrying out a programmeapproved by the Ceylon Tourist Board for thepromotion of tourism ;(ii) the expenditure incurred in travelling outside SriLanka for the purposes of any training referredto in paragraph (t) of subsection (1) of section 23where such expenditure is deductible inaccordance with the provision of suchparagraph ;

(e) entertainment expenes incurred by such person or hisemployee or on his behalf in connection with any trade,business, profession or vocation carried on orexercised by him ;

(f) entertainment allowances paid by such person to hisexecutive officer ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200063

(g) any disbursements or expenses of such person, notbeing money expended for the purpose of producingsuch profits or income ;

(h) any expenditure of a capital nature or any loss ofcapital incurred by such person ;

(i) the cost of any improvements effected by suchperson ;

(j) any sum recoverable under a contract of insurance orindemnity, if the amount received under such contractis not treated as income under section 89 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 or under section 96 ofthis Act ;

(k) rent of, or expenses in connection with, any premisesor part of a premises not occupied or used for thepurposes of producing such profits and income ;

(l) any amount paid or payable by such person by wayof

(i) income tax, or super tax or surtax or any othertax of a similar character in any country withwhich an agreement made by the Governmentof Sri Lanka for the avoidance of double taxationis in force (other than the excess of any suchincome tax, or super tax or surtax or any othertax of a similar character over such maximumamount of the credit in respect of Sri Lankaincome tax as is allowed by paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) of section 92) ; or

(ii) Sri Lanka income tax ; or

(iii) any prescribed tax or levy ; and

(iv) input tax under the Goods and Services Tax Act,No. 34 of 1996, for the period for which theprofits and income are being ascertained inrespect of any taxable activity. within themeaning of that Act, carried on by such person,if such person is entitled under that Act, to claimcredit for such input tax.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200064

Any regulation prescribing a tax or levy for thepurpose of this paragraph may be declared to takeeffect from a date earlier than the date on which suchregulation is made :

(m) any annuity, ground rent, or royalty paid by suchperson ;(n) any payment by such person to any pension, provident,savings, widows and orphans pension, or othersociety or fund, except such payments as are allowedunder paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section23 ;(o) one-half of the excess of any expenditure incurred bysuch person in providing any place of residence toany employee of such person or to the spouse, childor parent of such employee over the rental value ofsuch place of residence which is included in the profitsfrom employment of such employee within themeaning of section 4 ;

(p) such part of the rental paid by him under anyagreement entered into by him in any year ofassessment in respect of

(i) any plant, machinery, fixtures or equipment otherthan plant, machinery or fixtures or equipmentreferred to in paragraph (b), as is in excess of anamount equal to one-half of the total rentalpayable under such agreement ; and(ii) any motor vehicle, lorry, bus, tractor, trailer andoffice furniture, as is in excess of an amount equalto one-fourth of the total rental payable under suchagreement ;

(q) any sum transferred to any reserve or provision (otherthan any annual payment referred to in paragraph (q)of subsection (1) of section 23, for the payment ofany sum referred to in subsection (2) of section 32, ;

(r) such part of any sum paid or payable by such person,not being any venture capital company, any unit trustor any mutual fund, as consideration for the

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200065

management of any trade, business, professionor vocation carried on or exercised by him, asexceeds

(i) one million rupees or one per centum of theturnover of such trade, business, profession orvocation during the period in which profits andincome are being ascertained whichever is lower; or

(ii) such amount as may be determined by theCommissioner-General having regard to all thecircumstances of the case, as being reasonableand commercially justifiable as suchconsideration,

whichever is higher.

For the purposes of this paragraph, the term turnoverin relation to any trade, business, profession orvocation and to any period, means the total amountreceived or receivable from transactions entered into,or for services performed, in that period, in carryingon or exercising such trade, business, profession orvocation excluding any amount received or receivablefrom the sale of capital assets.

(2) No person carrying on any trade, business, professionor vocation shall be entitled to any sum for depreciation bywear and tear, or for renewal, or to any allowance underparagraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 23 or paragraph (e)of subsection (1) of section 23

(a) for any year of assessment, in respect of any vehicleused for travelling for the purpose of his trade,business, profession or vocation, except in respect of

(i) a motor cycle or bicycle used for such purposeby an officer, who is not an executive officer, inthe employment of such person ; and

(ii) a motor coach used for transporting employeesof such person to, or from their place of work ;and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200066

(b) in respect of any plant, machinery, fixtures, equipmentor articles provided for the use of any officer oremployee of such person in the place of residence ofsuch officer or employee,

or for any deduction for any rental or annual payment inrespect of any such vehicle, plant, machinery, fixtures,equipment or articles as are referred to in paragraphs (a) and(b).

(3) In ascertaining the profits or income arising from theannual value or rent of land and improvements thereon, nodeduction shall be made for outgoing and expenses exceptthose authorized in section 5 or section 6, as the case may be,except in the case of a company carrying on the business ofletting premises for commercial purposes.

CHAPTER V

ASCERTAINMENT OF TOTAL STATUTORY INCOME

25.(1) The statutory income of every person for eachyear of assessment from every source of his profit or incomein respect of which tax is chargeable shall be the full amountof the profits or income which was derived by him or arose oraccrued to his benefit from such source during that year ofassessment notwithstanding that he may have ceased topossess such source or that such source may have ceased toproduce income.

(2) Where the Commissioner-General directs under theprovisions of subsection (4) that the accounts in respect ofany trade, business, profession or vocation be made up forsuch periods as may be specified in that direction, he mayfurther direct that the statutory income from that source forany year of assessment be computed on the amount of theprofits of the period ending in that year of assessment. Where,however the statutory income of any person from a trade,business, profession or vocation has been computed byreference to an account made up for the certain period andsuch person fails to make up an account for a correspondingperiod in the year following, the statutory income from thatsource both of the year of assessment for which such failure

Basis forcomputingstatutory income.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200067

occurs and of the two years of assessment following shall becomputed on such basis as the Commissioner-General shallconsider just and equitable in the circumstances of the case :

Provided that the Commissioner-General may at any timevary of revoke a direction given under the preceding provisionsof this subsection ;

Provided further that where any such direction is varied orrevoked by the Commissioner-General he may order that thestatutory income for any year of assessment from the sourcein respect of which such direction was given be computed asif the accounts were made up to the thirty-first day of Marchin that year of assessment.

(3) Every person who carries on or exercises any trade,business, profession or vocation shall, subject to the provisionsof subsection (4), make up the accounts of that trade, business,profession or vocation for each successive period of twelvemonths ending on the thirty-first day of March of each year :

Provided that where a person

(a) commences to carry on or exercise a trade, business,profession or vocation in any year of assessment, suchperson shall make up the accounts of such trade,business, profession or vocation for the periodbeginning from the date of commencement of suchtrade, business, profession or vocation and ending onthe thirty-first day of March of that year of assessment; and(b) ceases to carry on or exercise a trade business,profession or vocation in any year of assessment, suchperson shall make up the accounts of such trade,business, profession or vocation for the periodbeginning from the that day of April of that year ofassessment and ending on the date of such cessation.

(4) Where any person is unable to comply with theprovisions of subsection (3) in relation to any trade, business,profession or vocation carried on or exercised by him, he shallgive notice in writing to the Commissioner-General settingout the reasons for his inability to comply with suchprovisions. The Commissioner-General may, if satisfied withthe reason set out in such notice, direct such person to makeup

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200068

the accounts of that trade, business, profession or vocationfor such periods as may be specified in that directionand it shall be the duty of such person to comply with thedirections :

Provided that the Commissioner-General may at any timevary or revoke any direction given by him under the precedingprovisions of this subsection.

26.Where in order to ascertain the profits or losses ofany trade, business, profession, vocation or employment forany year of assessment or other period, it is necessary to divideand apportion in relation to specific periods the profits or lossesfor any period for which accounts have been made up, or toaggregate any such profits or losses or any apportioned partsthereof, it shall be lawful to make such division, apportionmentor aggregation, as the case may be.

Any apportionment of the profits or losses for any periodfor which accounts have been made up shall be on the basisthat such profits or losses accrued evenly over that period.

27.The total statutory income of a person for any yearof assessment shall be the aggregate of his statutory incomefor that year of assessment from every source of his profits orincome in respect of which tax is charged.

28.The total statutory income for any year of assessmentof a child of a resident individual shall be aggregated withand deemed to form part, of the total statutory income of

(a) his father, if the marriage of his parents subsists inthat year of assessment ; or

(b) the parent who maintains him and with whom he livesin that year of assessment, if the marriage of his parentsdoes not subsist in that year of assessment.

For the purposes of this section, a marriage shall be deemednot to subsists if the wife in living apart from her husbandunder the decree of a competent court or duly executed deedof separation or if the husband and wife are in fact separatedin such circumstances that the separation is likely to bepermanent.

Aggregation ofthe total statutoryincome of a childwith that of hisparent.

Total statutoryincome.

Apportionment ofprofits.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200069

Deductions fromtotal statutoryincome in arrivingat assessableincome.

CHAPTER VI

ASCERTAINMENT OF ASSESSABLE INCOME.

29.(1) The assessable income of a person for any yearof assessment shall be his total statutory income for that yearsubject to the deductions specified in this section.

(2) There shall be deducted from the total statutory incomeof a person for any year of assessment

(a) sums payable by such person for that year ofassessment by way of annuity, ground rent, royalty orinterest not deductible under section 23 ;

Provided that

(i) no deduction shall be allowed in respect of anysum payable by way of interest, annuity, groundrent or royalty by a person out of Sri Lanka toanother person out of Sri Lanka ;

(ii) where for any year of assessment any such sumpayable exceeds the total statutory income forthat year, the excess shall be treated for thepurposes of this section in the same manner asa loss incurred in a trade during that year ;

(iii) where, at the time of making any assessment, itappears to an Assessor that any sum so payablehas not been paid, he may refuse to allow anydeduction in respect of that sum ;

(iv) where it appears to an Assessor that any sum inrespect of which a deduction has been refusedunder paragraph (iii) has subsequently beenpaid, such person shall, on application made inwriting within twelve months of making suchpayment and supported by such proof as he mayrequire, make an amended assessment allowingsuch deduction notwithstanding the provisions

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200070

of section 142 ; and any tax found to have beenpaid in excess as a result of such amendedassessment shall be refunded notwithstandingthe provisions of section 169 ; and

(v) where any sum is payable by such person byway of an annuity, no deduction shall be allowedin respect of any such sum payable by himduring the year of assessment in which suchannuity is created and during any year ofassessment succeeding that year of assessmentunless such annuity is

(a) paid under an order of court by way ofpayment of alimony or maintenance ;

(b) paid to his spouse under a duly executeddeed of separation ; or

(c) in return, for full consideration in moneyor moneys worth.

For the purposes of this paragraph the term interestmeans any interest paid on a loan the proceeds ofwhich are utilized

(i) for the construction or purchase of any building,or for the purchase of any site for theconstruction of any building ;

(ii) for the purchase of any share in any company ; or

(iii) in any trade, business, profession or vocation,carried on or exercised by him ;

(b) the amount of a loss (other than such part, if any, ofsuch loss as consists of a capital loss, a loss referredto in subsection (6), a loss referred to in subsection(7), a loss referred to in subsection (8), a loss referredto in paragraph (c) and a loss attributable to anyallowance for depreciation or any sum referred to inparagraph (e) of subsection (1) of section 23), incurredby him in any trade, business, profession or vocation

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200071

during any year of assessment being any year ofassessment within the period of six years immediatelypreceding the first-mentioned year of assessment, or

(c) the amount of a loss (other than such part, if any, ofsuch loss as is attributable to any allowance fordepreciation or any sum referred to in paragraph (e)of subsection (1) of section 23) incurred by him inany agricultural undertaking during any year ofassessment being any year of assessment within theperiod of eleven years immediately preceding the first-mentioned year of assessment,

which if it had been a profit would have been assessable andwhich has not been allowed against his total statutory incomefor any year of assessment within such period of six years oreleven years, as the case may be ;

(d) such part, if any, of such loss as is attributable to anyallowance for depreciation, incurred by him in anytrade, business, profession or vocation during any yearof assessment and which has not been allowed againsthis total statutory income of a previous year ofassessment ;

Provided that

(i) in no circumstances shall the aggregate of thedeductions from the total statutory income in respectof any loss exceed the amount of such loss ;

(ii) a deduction under this paragraph shall be made as faras possible from the total statutory income of the yearof assessment in which the loss was incurred and asfar as it cannot be so made, then from the total statutoryincome of the next year of assessment and so on ;

(iii) no deduction shall be made under this paragraph orunder subparagraph (b) of subsection (3) in respect ofa loss incurred by a company in which there had beenchange of ownership otherwise than by way of testate

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200072

or intestate succession, except against the statutoryincome of such trade or business of the company asthat in which the loss was incurred.

For the purposes of this paragraph, a change ofownership of a company is deemed to have occurredwhere more than one-third of the issued share capitalof the company is held, at any time in the year ofassessment for which the claim for deduction is made,either directly or through nominees, by persons whodid not hold such share capital, at any time in the yearof assessment in which the loss were incurred ;

(3) (a) Where the profits and income of an undertakingwere exempt from income tax, under section 17or section 18 or section 19 or section 20 of thisAct, or under section 16C or section 17A or section17C or section 17D or section 17G or section 17Hor section or section 17J or section 17JJ or section22A, or section 22B, or section 22C, or section 22D,or section 22DD or section 22DDD or section22DDDD of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979or under section 6 of the Inland Revenue Act, No.4 of 1963, for any period (such period beingreferred to in this paragraph as the exempt period),there shall be deducted from the total statutoryincome of the person who carries on thatundertaking in the year of assessment in whichsuch exemption ceases to apply, the excess, if any,of

(i) the total of any losses incurred by such personin such undertaking in any year of assessmentduring the exempt period, over

(ii) such profits and income of that undertakingas were exempt from income tax for any yearof assessment during the exempt periodsucceeding the year of assessment in whichsuch loss in that undertaking was incurred.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200073

(b) Where the entirety or any portion of the balanceof such losses referred to in paragraph (a) cannotbe deducted from the total statutory income ofsuch person for the year of assessment referredto in paragraph (a), the residue, if any, of suchentirety or of such portion, after, its deductionfrom the total statutory income of such personfor that year of assessment, shall be deemed tobe a loss incurred by such person in thatundertaking in the year of assessmentimmediately succeeding that year of assessmentand may accordingly be deducted in the mannerprovided in paragraph (b) (c) or (d) of subsection(2).

(4) Where at any time within the three years of assessmentimmediately succeeding any year of assessment any personceases to carry on any trade, business, profession or vocation,he shall on his making an application in that behalf to theCommissioner-General, be entitled to a deduction from thestatutory income for that year of assessment of the amount ofa loss other than a capital loss or a loss referred to in subsection(6), incurred by him in that trade, business, profession orvocation in any year of the three years which if it had been aprofit, would have been assessable under this Act, and whichhas not been allowed against his statutory income of any yearof assessment. For the purpose of allowing that deduction,the assessable income of that person for that year ofassessment shall, notwithstanding anything in section 142 berevised :

Provided that

(i) in no circumstances shall the aggregate deduction fromthe statutory income in respect of any loss exceed theamount of such loss ; and

(ii) a deduction under this subsection shall be made as faras possible from the statutory income of the first yearof assessment preceding that in which the loss was

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200074

incurred, and so far as it connot be so made, from thestatutory income of the next preceding year ofassessment and so on,

(5) (a) There shall be deducted from the total statutoryincome of a person for any year of assessment, ifsuch income includes capital gains, the amountof any capital loss of that person for that year ofassessment, which if it had been a profit wouldhave been assessable under this Act :

Provided that

(i) such deduction shall in no case exceed theamount of the capital gain included in suchtotal statutory income ;

(ii) where the capital loss of any person for anyyear of assessment exceeds the capital gainof such person for that year of assessmentsuch excess shall be a capital loss of thatperson for the next succeeding year ofassessment ;

(iii) where in any year of assessment the incomeof any person includes more than onecapital gain, such deduction shall be madefrom the capital gain taxable at the lowestrate specified in subsection (3) andsubsection (4) of section 32, if applicable,and thereafter from the capital gain taxableat the next highest rate, if applicable, andso on ; and

(iv) no deduction shall be made in respect ofany capital loss arising from the disposalof any capital asset used by such personfor producing profits or income of anytrade, business, profession or vocationcarried on or exercised by him, if adeduction for depreciation in respect ofsuch asset has been allowed under section23 of this Act, or under section 23 of theInland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 or

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200075

under section 10 of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 4 of 1963, or under section 11 of theIncome Tax Ordinance.

(b) Capital loss

(i) with reference to the capital loss of a personarising from a change of ownership of anyproperty means, subject to the provisionsof subsection (4) of section 7, the amountby which the value of that property at thetime when such change of ownership occursis less than its value at the time when it wasacquired by that person ;

(ii) with reference to the capital loss of anyperson arising from the redemption of anyshares debentures or other obligations,means, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4) of section 7, the amount bywhich the value of all property received byhim in consequence of such redemption isless than the value of that which isredeemed at the time of its acquisition orwhere that which is redeemed is anyproperty referred to in paragraph (e) orparagraph (f) or paragraph (g) or paragraph(h) of subsection (3) of section 7, is lessthan such value of that property as isspecified in that paragraph ;

(iii) with reference to the capital loss of anyperson arising from the dissolution of abusiness or the liquidation of a company,means, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (4) of section (7), the amountby which the value of all property receivedby him in consequence of such dissolutionor liquidation is less than the value of hisshare of the capital of such business orcompany at the time when such share wasacquired by him ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200076

(iv) includes the amount of any debt (other thana trade debt) which is proved to be due bydocumentary evidence and which is provedto be irrecoverable.

(c) In computing the amount of a capital loss, anyexpenditure of the description referred to inparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (4) ofsection 7 shall be taken into account.

(d)(i) Where a person dies and has any capital lossfor the last year of assessment for which hewas liable to be assessed for income tax, theamount of such capital loss shall, as far as ispracticable, be deducted from his statutoryincome from all sources for such last year ofassessment, and if it cannot be so deducted,from his statutory income from all sourcesfor any of the three years of assessment inorder of recession immediately precedingsuch last year of assessment.

(ii) Where a deduction is made from the statutoryincome of any person for any year ofassessment under subparagraph (i), the taxfor that year of assessment in respect of himshall, notwithstanding anything in section142, be revised taking into consideration suchdeduction and the amount of the differencebetween the amount of the tax paid by himin respect of that year of assessment and theamount of the revised tax for that year ofassessment shall, if there is an executor ofthe deceased, be refunded to such executor,and if there is no such executor, be refundedto such person or persons as is or are in theopinion of the Commissioner-General,entitled to such refund.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200077

(iii) Where a company is liquidated and suchcompany has any capital loss for the last yearof assessment for which it was liable to beassessed for income tax, the amount of suchcapital loss shall, as far as practicable, bededucted from the statutory income from allsources of such company for such last yearof assessment, and, if it cannot be sodeducted, from the statutory income from allsources of such company for any of the threeyears of assessment in order of recessionimmediately preceding such last year ofassessment.

(iv) Where a deduction is made from the statutoryincome of any company for any year ofassessment under subparagraph (iii), the taxfor that year of assessment in respect of suchcompany shall, notwithstanding theprovisions of section 142, be revised, takinginto consideration such deduction, and thedifference between the amount of the tax paidby such company in respect of that year ofassessment and the amount of the revised taxfor that year of assessment shall be refunded.

(e) In computing the capital loss of a person underthis subsection, the provisions of subsection (3)of section 7 shall apply as though for theexpressions capital gain and gain occurringin that subsection, there were substituted theexpressions capital loss and loss.

(6) There shall be deducted from the total statutory incomeof a person for any year of assessment, where such incomeincludes profits and income from the business of racing ofhorses, any loss for any year of assessment from the businessof racing of horses owned by such person, which if it hadbeen a profit would have been assessable under this Act, andwhich has not been so deducted from his total statutory incomeof a previous year :

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200078

Provided that such deduction shall in no case exceed theamount of the profits and income of such business includedin such total statutory income and shall be made as far aspossible from the statutory income of such person for the firstyear of assessment after that in which the loss was incurredand so far as it cannot be so made, then from such income ofthe next year of assessment and so on.

(7) There shall be deducted from the total statutory incomeof a person for any year of assessment, where such incomeincludes profits and income of any foreign currency bankingunit arising from on-shore foreign currency transactions andwhich are not exempt from income tax under this Act, anyloss for any year of assessment incurred by such person fromsuch foreign currency banking unit from on-shore foreigncurrency transactions which if it had been a profit would havebeen assessable under this Act, and which has not been sodeducted from his total statutory income of a previous year :

Provided that such deduction shall in no case exceed theamount of the profits and income of such foreign currencybanking unit included in such total statutory income and shallbe made, as far as possible, from the total statutory income ofsuch person for the first year of assessment after that in whichthe loss was incurred and so far as it cannot be so made, thenfrom the total statutory income of the next succeeding yearof assessment and so on.

(8) There shall be deducted from the total statutory incomeof a person for any year of assessment, where such incomeincludes profits and income from any business of leasing, anyloss incurred in any year of assessment from the business ofleasing which if it had been a profit would have beenassessable under this Act, and which has not been so deductedfrom his total statutory income of a previous year :

Provided that such deduction shall in no case exceed theamount of the profits and income of such business includedin such total statutory income; and shall be made as far as

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200079

possible, from the total statutory income of such person forthe first year of assessment after that in which the loss wasincurred and so far as it cannot be so made, then from thetotal statutory income of the next succeeding year ofassessment and so on.

(9) Where any person has been declared or adjudgedinsolvent by a competent court, no loss incurred prior to thedate of bankruptcy or insolvency shall be deducted fromincome arising after such date.

(10) The amount of a loss from any trade, business,profession or vocation shall be ascertained in the mannerprovided in this Act for ascertainment of profits from a trade,business, profession or vocation.

(11) Where the total statutory income of any child for anyyear of assessment is aggregated with, and deemed to be apart of, the total statutory income of his parent for that yearof assessment, any sum which could be deducted from thetotal statutory income of such child under the provisions ofthis section shall be deducted from the total statutory incomeof such parent.

CHAPTER VII

ASCERTAINMENT OF TAXABLE INCOME

30.(1) The taxable income of an individual or acharitable institution who or which is resident in Sri Lanka inany year of assessment shall be the assessable income of thatindividual or that institution for that year of assessment afterdeducting therefrom the aggregate of

(a) an allowance of one hundred and forty four thousandrupees ; and(b) any allowance to which such individual or institutionis entitled under section 31 :Provided that an individual who is a trustee, receiver, executoror liquidator shall not be entitled to deduct the allowancereferred in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) as such trustee,receiver, executer or liquidator.

Taxable income.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200080

(2) The taxable income of any person (other than anyresident individual or any charitable institution) for any yearof assessment, shall be the assessable income for that year ofassessment of that individual or institution after deductingtherefrom any allowance to which he or such institution isentitled under section 31.

31.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4) thereshall be deducted, for the purposes of section 30, from theassessable income of a person for any year of assessment inrespect of every qualifying payment made by him or deemedto have been made by him in that year of assessment, anallowance equal to the amount of such qualifying payment.

(2) In this section, qualifying payment means

(a) a donation made by any person in money to anapproved charity ;

(b) a donation made in money or otherwise to

(i) the Government of Sri Lanka ;

(ii) a local authority ;

(iii) any Higher Educational Institution establishedor deemed to be established under theUniversities Act, No 16 of 1978 ;

(iv) the Buddhist and Pali University or any HigherEducational Institution established by or underthe Buddhist and Pali University Act No. 74 of1981 ;

(v) a fund established by the Government of SriLanka,

(vi) a fund established by a local authority andapproved by the Minister ;

(vii) the Sevana Fund created and administered bythe National Housing Development authorityestablished by the National HousingDevelopment authority Act, No. 17 of 1979;

(viii) a fund established by a Provincial Council andapproved by the Minister.

An allowance inrespect ofqualifyingpayments.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200081

(c) expenditure incurred by any person on any projectincluded in a development plan of the Government ofSri Lanka, if such expenditure was incurred

(i) with the prior written approval of the Minister ;and

(ii) in accordance with such terms and conditionsas may have been specified by the Minister atthe time of granting such approval, suchapproval being granted, and such terms andconditions being specified, by the Minister,having regard to the development priorities ofthe Government ;

(d) any amount paid by an individual as a contribution toa provident fund for self employed persons approvedby the Commissioner-General for such purpose ;

(e) any contribution made by an individual to suchprovident fund or pension fund as is approved by theCommissioner-General or to a regulated providentfund if the emoluments from which such contributionsare made are not exempt from income tax underparagraph (b) of section 9 ;

(f) a donation made by any person in money to

(i) the Industrial Technology Institute establishedby the Science and Technology DevelopmentAct, No. 11 of 1994 ;

(ii) the Sri Lanka Foundation established by theSri Lanka Foundation Law, No. 31 of 1973 ;

(iii) the Tower Hall Theatre Foundation establishedby the Tower Hall Theatre Foundation Act, No.1 of 1978 ;

(iv) the Sri Lanka Inventors Commission establishedby the Sri Lanka Inventors Incentives Act, No.53 of 1979;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200082

(v) the S.W.R.D. Bandaranaike National MemorialFoundation established by the S.W.R.DBandaranaike National Memorial FoundationLaw, No. 2 of 1975 ;

(vi) the Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka,established by the Institute of FundamentalStudies, Sri Lanka, Act, No. 55 of 1981 ;

(vii) the International Winged Bean (Dambala)Institute, established by the InternationalWinged Bean (Dambala) Institute Act, No. 7 of1982 ;

(viii) the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing, establishedby the Sri Lanka Institute of Printing Act, No.18 of 1984 ;

(ix) the Arthur C. Clarke Institute for ModernTechnologies established by the Scienceand Technology Development Act, No. 11 of1994 ;

(x) the Institute of Policy Studies of Sri LankaEstablished by the Institute of Policy Studies ofSri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1988 ;

(xi) the J. R. Jayawardena Centre established by theJ. R. Jayawardena Centre Act, No. 77 of 1988 ;

(g) any premia in any year of assessment, being premiawhich have accured due for payment ;

(i)on a life insurance policy (not being a pureendowment policy) the premia in respect of whichare payable annually over a period of not less thanthree years ;

(ii)on a policy of medical insurance,

not being premia paid outside Sri Lanka in respect of anysuch policy issued outside Sri Lanka ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200083

(h) expenditure incurred by any person in the production,at a cost not less than five million rupees, of any film,the production of which commences on or afterJanuary 1, 2000 ;

Provided however that any qualifying paymentreferred to in this paragraph shall, for the purposes ofsubsection (1) be deemed to have been made in theyear of assessment in which the production of suchfilm is completed.

For the purposes of this paragraph the expression

(i) expenditure in relation to the production ofa film includes any expenditure incurred in thepromotion of that film within a period of ninetydays from the date of completion of theproduction of such film ;

(ii) film means any audio-visual presentation ofthe moving image recorded on celluloid andwhich is intended primarily to be exhibited byprojection on a screen in a cinema.

(3) Where the total statutory income of any child for anyyear of assessment is aggregated with, and deemed to be apart of, the total statutory income of his parent for that yearof assessment, any qualifying payment made by that child inthat year of assessment shall be deemed to be a qualifyingpayment made by such parent.

(4) The deduction from the assessable income ofany

(a) person, other than a company for any year ofassessment

(i) in respect of all qualifying payments other thanthose referred to in paragraphs (b), (c), (g) and(h) of subsection (2), made by him or deemedto have been made by him in that year ofassessment shall not exceed one third of suchassessable income or twenty five thousandrupees which ever is less ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200084

(ii) in respect of all qualifying payments referredto in paragraph (c) of subsection (2), made byhim or deemed to have been made by him inthat year of assessment shall not exceed twentyfive thousand rupees ;

(iii) in respect of all qualifying payments referredto in paragraph (g) of subsection (2), made byhim or deemed to have been made by him inthat year of assessment shall not exceed one-third of such assessable income or twenty fivethousand rupees ; whichever is less ;

(iv) in respect of any qualifying payment referredto in paragraph (h) of subsection (2), deemed tohave been made by him in that year ofassessment shall not exceed ten millionrupees ;

(v) in respect of the aggregate of all qualifyingpayments referred to in paragraphs (i) and (ii)of this paragraph shall not exceed twenty fivethousand rupees.

(b) a company for any year of assessment

(i) in respect of all qualifying payments other thanthose referred to in paragraphs (b) and (h) ofsubsection (2) made by that company or deemedto have been made by that company in that yearof assessment shall not exceed one-fifth of suchassessable income ;

(ii) in respect of any qualifying payment referredto in paragraph (h) of subsection (2) deemed tohave been made by that company in that year ofassessment shall not exceed ten million rupees.

(5) The amount of any qualifying payment referred to inparagraph (b) or paragraph (c) of subsection (2), made ordeemed to have been made by any person in any year ofassessment and which cannot be deducted from his assessable

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200085

income for that year of assessment shall be deducted fromhis assessable income for the next succeeding year ofassessment, and so on.

(6) The excess of the allowance in respect of anyqualifying payment referred to in paragraph (h) of subsection(2) deemed to have been made in any year of assessment, byany person, shall be deducted, to the extent it can be sodeducted, from the assessable income of that person for theyear of assessment immediately succeeding that year ofassessment (hereinafter reffered to as the first succeedingyear of assessment) any residue of such excess shall bededucted from the assessable income of the year of assessmentimmediately succeeding the first succeeding year ofassessment.

(7) For the purposes of this section

(a) an approved charity means an approved charitywithin the meaning of section 16A of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 4 of 1963, or under paragraph (a)of subsection 9 of section 31 of the Inland RevenueAct No. 28 of 1979 or any such public charitable trustor institution as is declared by the Minister by noticepublished in the Gazette to be an approved charity forthe purposes of this section ;

(b) the amount of a donation made to the Governmentotherwise than in money shall be the value of suchdonation and such value shall

(i) be the cost incurred during that year of assessmentby the donor of the property donated ; or

(ii) where the cost incurred by the donor during thatyear of assessment cannot be ascertained or whereno cost was incurred in that year of assessment,be the market value of the property donated atthe time of such donation.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200086

CHAPTER VIII

RATES OF INCOME TAX ON PERSONS OTHER THAN COMPANIES

32.(1) Subject as hereinafter provided, income tax shallbe charged for each year of assessment on the taxable incomefor that year of assessment of any person

(a) if he is an individual other than a receiver, trustee,executor or liquidator acting in such capacityin respect of any year of assessment at the appropriaterates specified in Part I of the First Schedule to thisAct ;

(b) if he is an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lankaand is deemed by subsection (7) of section 73, to benon-resident, at the rate specified in Part II of the FirstSchedule to this Act; or

(c) if such person is a person other than a company or anindividual to whom paragraph (a) applies, in respectof any year of assessment at the appropriate ratesspecified in the Third Schedule to this Act :

Provided that the income tax payable for any year ofassessment by an individual who is deemed to be non-residentunder subsection (7) of section 73 shall not be more than theamount by which his assessable income for that year ofassessment exceeds the allowance referred to in paragraph(a) of subsection (1) of section 30.

(2) Where in consequence of the inclusion in the statutoryincome of an individual for any year of assessment of

(a) a sum received in commutation of a pension ; or

(b) a sum received as a retiring gratuity other than suchpart of such sum as exceeds

one million eight hundred thousand rupees; or

a sum equivalent to the average monthly salary orwage paid to such individual during the period ofthree years immediately preceding his retirement

Rates of incometax on personsother thancompanies.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200087

from any employment under the employer whopays such gratuity, multiplied by the number ofcompleted years of service

whichever is greater ; or

(c) any sum received as compensation for loss of officeor employment ; or

(d) a sum paid to him, at the time of his retirement fromany employment, or at any subsequent time, from aprovident fund approved by the Commissioner-General other than such part of that sum as representshis contributions to that provident fund; or

(e) any sum paid from a regulated provident fund to anemployee (other than such part of that sum asrepresents the contributions made by the employer tothat fund prior to April 1, 1968, and the interest whichaccrued on such contributions made by the employerif, in respect of such contributions made by theemployer and the interest which accrued on suchcontributions made by the employer, tax at the rate offifteen per centum has paid by the employer); or

(f) any sum paid to him at the time of his retirement fromany employment, from the Employees Trust Fund,established by the Employees Trust Fund Act, No.46 of 1980;

his taxable income for any year of assessment exceeds thatwhich would be his taxable income if no such aforementionedsum were included in his statutory income, the excess,notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision ofthis Act, shall be chargeable with tax at the appropriate ratesspecified in Part III of the First Schedule to this Act, if suchaforementioned sum has been paid by the employer of suchindividual, in accordance with a scheme which, in the opinionof the Commissioner-General, is uniformly applicable to allindividuals employed by such employer. If any suchaforementioned sum has been paid to such individual inaccordance with a scheme which, in the opinion of the

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200088

Commissioner-General, is not uniformly applicable to allindividuals employed by such employer, his taxable income(inclusive of such excess) shall be chargeable with tax at theappropriate rates specified in Part I of the First Schedule tothis Act :

Provided, however, that where the taxable income of anindividual for any year of assessment includes any sumreferred to in paragraph (c) which has been paid to suchindividual in accordance with a scheme which, in the opinionof the Commissioner-General, is not uniformly applicableto all individuals employed by the employer of that individualsuch sum shall be treated as a capital gain, within the meaningof this Act, and such individual shall be taxed for that year ofassessment, in accordance with provisions of subsection (3).

(3) Where the taxable income of a person includes anycapital gain not being a capital gain from the change ofownership of any property and the rate of income tax payableon such part of such income (hereinafter in this subsectionreferred to as the relevant part of the income) exceedstwenty-five per centum, then, in regard to the relevant part ofthe income, the tax shall be computed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such capital gains

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchcapital gain shall be at the rate of twenty-five percentum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according tosuch of the rates of above twenty-five per centumas are applicable thereto under this Act; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of the net capital gain, the tax payable on theincome shall be twenty-five per centumnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200089

(4) Where the taxable income of a person includes anycapital gain from the change of ownership of any property,more than two years but not more than five years after thedate of acquisition of such property by such person, and therate of income tax payable on a part of such income(hereinafter in this subsection referred to as the relevant partof the income) exceeds twenty-five per centum, then, inregard to the relevant part of the income, the tax shall becomputed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such capital gain

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchcapital gain shall be at the rate of twenty-five percentum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according tosuch of the rates above twenty-five per centumas are applicable thereto under this Act; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of the net capital gain the tax payable on theentirety of the relevant part of the income shall betwenty-five per centum notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in this Act.

(5) Where the taxable income of a person includes anycapital gain, arising from the change of ownership of anyproperty, within such period after the date of acquisition ofthat property by that person as is referred to in Column I hereto,the provisions of subsection (4) shall apply to the computationof income tax on such capital gain, as if for the reference to

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200090

twenty-five per centum in that subsection, there weresubstituted the references specified in the corresponding entryin Column II hereto.

Column IColumn II

more than five years but notmore than fifteen years17 1/2 per centum

more than fifteen years but notmore than twenty years12 1/2 per centum

more than twenty years butless than twenty five years5 per centum

(6) Where the taxable income of any person includes anycapital gain arising from the change of ownership of anyimmovable property acquired by that person by way of giftor inheritance from any other person, the date of acquisitionof such property by the first-mentioned person shall, for thepurposes of subsection (4) or subsection (5) of this section orof subparagraph (xvi) of paragraph (a) of subsection (1) ofsection 14, be deemed to be the date of acquisition of suchproperty by the second-mentioned person.

(7) Where any charitable institution provides in any yearof assessment institutionalised care for the sick or the needyand where the Commissioner-General is satisfied that the costof provision of such care is borne by such charitable institution,the Commissioner-General may, subject to such condition ashe may specify, reduce or remit the tax payable by suchcharitable institution in respect of its profits and income forsuch year of assessment, if it appears to the Commissioner-General that such reduction or remission is just and equitablein all the circumstances of the case.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200091

CHAPTER IX

SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE TAXATION OF CERTAIN

PROFITS AND OF DIVIDENDS OUT OF SUCH PROFITS

33.(1) The provisions of this section shall apply to theinterest payable on the compensation payable in respect ofany immovable or movable property vested in the Governmentor in the Land Reform Commission or in a public corporationor in a local authority, such interest being the accumulatedinterest payable on such compensation for the periodcommencing on the date on which such compensation accruesdue and ending on the date of payment of such compensation(in this section referred to as the relevant interest).

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law

(a) the relevant interest received by any person shall bedeemed to be income arising to that person in the yearof assessment in which he receives such interest andnot in the year of assessment to which such interestrelates and such interest shall be liable to income taxat the rate of ten per centum ;

(b) the Government, the Land Reform Commission, thepublic corporation or the local authority paying therelevant interest to any person shall deduct from suchinterest an amount equal to ten per centum of suchinterest and shall remit the amount so deducted to theCommissioner-General, with a statement in writingshowing the particulars of the gross amount of therelevant interest payable, the tax deducted, the netamount paid, the name and address of the person towhom it is paid and the amount so remitted shall beset off against the tax payable by such person underparagraph (a),

(3) In this section,

Land Reform Commission means the Land ReformCommission established by the Land Reform law No. 1 of1972.

Special provisionrelating totaxation of intereston compensationpayable in respectof property vestedin theGovernment, theLand ReformCommission or apublic corporationor a localauthority.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200092

34.(1) The provisions of this section shall apply to theaccumulated interest (in this section referred to as the relevantinterest) paid on a sum of money deposited in a bankinginstitution by

(a) any individual ; or

(b) another person on behalf of any individual,

under a scheme approved by the Commissioner-Generalwhich

(i) is operated by such banking institution ; and

(ii) conforms to such conditions as may be specified,from time to time, by the Commissioner-General.

The Commissioner-General shall, in specifying any matterwhich is required by this subsection to be specified by him,have regard to the need to encourage and facilitate savings.

(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act

(a) the relevant interest paid to any individual shall bedeemed to be income arising to such individual in theyear of assessment in which such interest is paid tohim and not in the year of assessment to which suchinterest relates and such interest shall be liable toincome tax at the rate of fifteen per centum or themaximum rate at which he is liable to pay income taxon his profits and income (exclusive of the relevant,interest) for that year of assessment, whichever is thelower rate ;

(b) the banking institution paying the relevant interest tosuch individual shall, notwithstanding anything inparagraph (a), deduct from such interest an amountequal to fifteen per centum of such interest and shallforthwith remit the sum so deducted to theCommissioner-General ;

(c) where a banking institution deducts income tax inaccordance with paragraph (b) from the relevantinterest paid to any individual, it shall issue to such

Deductions ofincome tax frominterest payableon certain depositaccounts.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200093

individual, a statement in writing setting out the grossamount of the relevant interest payable, the rate andamount of tax deducted and the net amount actuallypaid ;

(d) where

(i) any amount is deducted in accordance withparagraph (b), from the relevant interest paid toany individual ; and

(ii) the maximum rate at which such individual isliable to pay income tax for the year of assessmentin which such deduction is made, in respect ofhis profits and income (exclusive of the relevantinterest) is less than fifteen per centum,

then such individual shall be entitled, on production of thestatement referred to in paragraph (c) and subject to theprovisions of Chapter XXIV, to a refund of such percentageof the relevant interest as is equal to the difference betweenfifteen per centum and such maximum rate of tax.

(3) Where a banking institution, which is required bysubsection (2) to deduct any income tax from the relevantinterest paid by it to any individual, fails to deduct such incometax, then, the director, general manager or other principalofficer of such banking institution shall be personally liablefor the tax which such institution was required to deduct underthis section and such tax may be recovered from such director,general manager, or principal officer, by all the meansprovided in this Act.

(4) Where any money is deposited in a banking institutionby an individual under a scheme approved by theCommissioner-General under subsection (1) and suchindividual withdraws the interest on such money, incontravention of the conditions imposed by the Commissioner-General in relation to such scheme, additional assessmentsmay, notwithstanding anything in this Act, be made in respectof every year of assessment to which the interest so withdrawnrelates.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200094

35. The gross interest (not being interest exempt underany other provision of this Act), payable on a loan granted toany person in Sri Lanka by any company, partnership or otherbody of persons outside Sri Lanka, being interest which arisesor is deemed, by section 88, to arise to such company,partnership or other body of persons shall notwithstandinganything in this Act, be chargeable with income tax at therate of fifteen per centum.

36.The gross royalty payable by any person in Sri Lankato any company, partnership or body of persons outside SriLanka, being royalty which arises or is deemed by section 89to arise in Sri Lanka to such company, partnership or otherbody of persons shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provision of this Act, be chargeable with incometax at the rate of fifteen per centum.

37.(1) Where an individual who is deemed, undersubsection (7) of section 73 to be non-resident for a period ofthree years, continues to be employed in Sri Lanka after theexpiry of such period, the profits from such employment ofsuch individual for a period of two years commencing fromthe end of such period of three years shall, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act, be chargeable with incometax at the rate of fifteen per centum.

(2) Where an individual who is employed in a companybeing a flagship company, within the meaning of paragraph(b) of section 11, and which has, on or after November 8,1995, entered into an agreement with the Board of Investmentof Sri Lanka under section 17 of the Board of Investment ofSri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978, and who is deemed under theproviso to subsection (7) of section 73 to be non-resident fora period of five years, continues to be employed in suchflagship company after the expiry of such period, the profitsfrom employment in such flagship company of such individualfor the period commencing from the end of such period offive years and ending on the date on which the exemption ofthe profits and income of such flagship company, under the

Rate of incometax on the grossinterest on loansgranted by acompany,partnership orother body ofpersons outsideSri Lanka.

The rate ofincome tax onroyalty payable toany companypartnership orother body ofpersons outsideSri Lanka.

The rate ofincome tax onprofits fromemployment, for aspecified period ofa non citizenemployed in SriLanka.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200095

terms of such agreement, ceases, shall notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, be chargeable with incometax at the rate of fifteen per centum.

38.The profits and income, of any foreign currencybanking unit arising from any on-shore foreign currencytransaction, shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provision of this Act, be liable to income tax atthe rate of fifteen per centum.

39.(1) Where the taxable income of any person (otherthan a company) for any year of assessment includes anyprofits and income [within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3] from any

(a) agricultural undertaking ;

(b) undertaking for the promotion of tourism ; or

(c) undertaking for construction work ;

(hereinafter in this section referred to as specified profits)and the rate of income tax payable on a part of such incomehereinafter in this section referred to as relevant part ofincome exceeds fifteen per centum, then in regard to therelevant part of income, tax shall be computed as follows :

(i) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such specified profits

(a) the tax payable on such portion of the relevantpart of the income as is equal to the amount ofsuch specified profits, shall be at the rate of fifteenper centum ; and

(b) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according to therates of tax above fifteen per centum as areapplicable thereto under this Act ;

(ii) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of such specified profits, the tax payable onthe entirety of the relevant part of the income shall be

Rate of incometax on the profitsand income of anyforeign currencybanking unit.

Rate of incometax on profitsfrom certainundertakingscarried on by aperson other thana company.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200096

at the rate of fifteen per centum, notwithstandinganything to the contrary, to the other provisions ofthis Chapter or to Chapter VIII.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)

(a) agricultural undertaking includes any undertakingfor

(i) fishing ;

(ii) cultivating land with plants of whateverdescription ; and

(iii) provision of the services of management to anyundertaking for cultivating land with plants ofwhatever description.

(b) any undertaking for the promotion of tourism meansan undertaking for the operation of

(i) any hotel or guest house approved by the CeylonTourist Board ; or

(ii) any restaurant graded by the Ceylon TouristBoard as being in Class A or Class B ;

(iii) any business of travel agent ;

(iv) any business of transporting tourists ;

(v) any business approved by the Ceylon TouristBoard for providing facilities for recreation orsports.

(c) profits and income from any agriculturalundertaking means

(i) in the case of an undertaking referred to in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (a), the profits andincome from fees for providing the services ofmanagement ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200097

(ii) in any other case, the profits and income fromthe sale of produce of such undertaking withoutsubjecting such produce to any process ofproduction or manufacture :

Provided that where any person carries on anyundertaking for subjecting the produce of anyagricultural undertaking to any process ofproduction or manufacture, the produce of theagricultural undertaking shall for the purposeof this subparagraph be deemed to have beensold to such undertaking for production ormanufacture at the open market price prevailingat the time of the deemed sale and the profitfrom the sale of the produce of such agriculturalundertaking shall be the profits arising fromsuch deemed sale.

(d) undertaking for construction work means anundertaking carried on by a resident person for theconstruction of any

(i) building ;

(ii) roads or bridges ; or

(iii) water supply, drainage or sewerage systems,

40.(1) Where the taxable income of any company forany year of assessment includes any profits and income [withinthe meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3] from any

(a)agricultural undertaking ;

(b)undertaking for the promotion of tourism ; or

(c)undertaking for construction work.

such part of such taxable income as consists of such profitsand income shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provisions of this Chapter, or Chapter X, bechargeable with income tax at the rate of fifteen per centum.

Rate of incometax on profitsfrom certainundertakingscarried on by acompany.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200098

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the expressionsagricultural undertaking, any undertaking for thepromotion of tourism, the profits and income from anyagricultural undertaking and undertaking for constructionwork shall have the respective meanings assigned to them insection 39.

41.(1) Where the taxable income of any person (otherthan a company) for any year of assessment includes anydividend being a dividend,

(a) out of profits and income referred to in section 40 ; or

(b) paid out of any such dividend as is referred to inparagraph (a) received by any company directly froma company referred to in section 40 or through one ormore intermediary companies, if the first mentioneddividend is paid during the year of assessment in whichthe profits and income referred to in section 40 aroseor accrued or within two years from the end of thatyear of assessment

and the rate of income tax payable on a part of such income(hereinafter in this section referred to as the relevant part ofthe income) exceeds fifteen per centum, then in regard tothe relevant part of the income, tax shall be computed asfollows :

(i) if the relevant part of the income exceeds theamount of such dividends

(a) the tax payable on such part of the relevantpart of the income as is equal to the amountof such dividends, shall be at the rate offifteen per centum ; and

(b) the tax payable on the balance of the relevantpart of the income shall be computedaccording to such of the rates of the tax abovefifteen per centum as are applicable theretounder this Act ;

Rate of incometax on dividendspaid out of profitstaxed inaccordance withsection 40.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 200099

(ii) if the relevant part of the income does not exceedthe amount of such dividends, tax payable on theentirety of the relevant part of the income shallbe at the rate of fifteen per centum,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in theother provisions of this Chapter or of ChapterVIII.

(2) Where the taxable income of any company includesany dividend referred to in subsection (1), the rate of incometax applicable to such part of such taxable income as consistsof such dividend shall, subject to the provisions of section 58be fifteen per centum.

42.(1) Where for any year of assessment the taxableincome of any company referred to in subsection (2), includesany profits and income, within the meaning of paragraph (a)of section 3 there shall be deducted from the tax payable bythat company for that year of assessment, an amount equal tofive per centem of such part of such taxable income as consistsof such profits and income.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, apply to anycompany

(a) which is a quoted public company for that year ofassessment ; and

(b) in respect of which the Assessor is satisfied that, thenumber of persons registered in the share register ofsuch company as shareholders is, at no time duringthat year of assessment, less than three hundred.

43.(1) Where for any year of assessment the taxableincome of any company referred to in subsection (2) includesany profits and income, within the meaning of paragraph (a)of section 3, there shall be deducted from the tax payable bythat company for that year of assessment, an amount equal tofive per centum of such part of such taxable income as consistsof such profits and income.

Deduction fromtax payable byany companywhich obtain aquotation of itsshares andsatisfies certainfurther conditions.

Deduction fromtax payable byany quoted publiccompany undercertain conditions.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000100

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, apply to anycompany

(a) the shares of which are, as at March 31 of that year ofassessment, quoted in any official list published byany Stock Exchange licensed by the Securities andExchange Commission of Sri Lanka consequent toan application made in that year of assessment ; and

(b) in respect of which the Assessor is satisfied that as atMarch 31 of that year of assessment the number ofpersons registered in the share register of suchcompany as shareholders is not less than threehundred.

44.Where any person (not being a company) commenceson or after November 10, 1993, to carry on any specifiedundertaking and the taxable income of that person for anyyear of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2014 includesany qualified export profits and income, and the rate of incometax payable on a part of such income (hereinafter in this sectionreferred to as the relevant part of income) exceeds fifteenper centum, then, in regard to the relevant part of the income,the tax shall be computed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such qualified export profits and income

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchqualified export profits and income shall be atthe rate of fifteen per centum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of relevant part ofthe income shall be computed according to suchof the rates of above fifteen per centum as areapplicable thereto under this Act ; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of the qualified exports profits and income,the tax payable on the entirety of the relevant part ofthe income shall be at the rate of fifteen per centumnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act.

Rate of incometax on qualifiedexport profits andincome of personnot being acompany, whocommenced tocarry on anyspecifiedundertaking.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000101

45.Where any company commences after November,10, 1993, to carry on any specified undertaking and the taxableincome of that company for any year of assessmentcommencing prior to April 1, 2014, includes any qualifiedexport profits and income, such part of the taxable income ofthat company for that year of assessment as consists of suchqualified exports profits and income shall notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act, be chargeable with incometax at the rate of fifteen per centum.

46.Where any person (not being a company)commenced, prior to November 10, 1993, to carry on anyspecified undertaking and the taxable income of such personfor any year of assessment commencing prior to April 1, 2015,includes any qualified exports profits and income and the rateof income tax payable on a part of such income (hereinafterin this section referred to as the relevant part of income)exceeds fifteen per centum, then, in regard to the relevantpart of the income, the tax shall be computed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such qualified export profits and income

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchqualified export profits and income shall be atthe rate of fifteen per centum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of relevant part ofthe income shall be computed according to suchof the rates of above fifteen per centum as areapplicable thereto under this Act ; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of the qualified exports profits and income,the tax payable on the entirety of the relevant part ofthe income shall be at the rate of fifteen per centumnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act.

Rate of incometax on qualifiedexport profits andincome of acompany whichcommenced tocarry on anyspecifiedundertaking.

Rate of incometax on qualifiedexport profits andincome of aperson (not beinga company) whocarries on anyspecifiedundertaking.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000102

47.Where any company, commenced prior to November10, 1993, to carry on any specified undertaking and the taxableincome of that company for any year of assessmentcommencing prior to April 1, 2015, includes any qualifiedexport profits and income from such specified undertaking,such part of such taxable income as consists of such qualifiedexport profits and income, shall, notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in this Act, be chargeable with income tax at therate of fifteen per centum.

48.(1) Where the taxable income of any person (otherthan a company) for any year of assessment includes anydividend

(a) being a dividend out of the

(i) export profits and income of any companyreferred to in section 32F of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 28 of 1979 paid, during the period inwhich such profits and income are taxable at therate of ten per centum, or within one yearthereafter ; or

(ii) profits and income of any company which hasentered into an agreement with the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka under section 17 of theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978 being profits and income in respect of whichsuch company has, in lieu of the exemptiongranted to it under such agreement, opted to becharged with income tax at the rate of ten percentum, paid during the period for which suchprofits are so chargeable with income tax orwithin one year thereafter ; or

(b) being a dividend paid by any company out of suchdividend received by that company as is referred to insub paragraph (i) or sub paragraph (ii) of paragraph(a) if the first mentioned dividend is paid during anyyear of assessment in which the second mentioneddividend was received by that company, or within oneyear thereafter ; or

Rate of incometax on qualifiedexport profits andincome of acompany whichcarries on anyspecifiedundertaking.

Rate of incometax on dividendsout of exportsprofits andincome.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000103

(c) being dividend out of any such dividend as is referredto in sub paragraph (i) or sub paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (a) received by any company through oneor more intermediary companies during the period forwhich the profits and income out of which thedividends referred to in subparagraph (i) orsubparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) are paid are txableat the rate of ten per centum or within two yearsthereafter, if the first-mentioned dividend is paidduring the year of assessment in which the second-mentioned dividend was received by that company orwithin one year thereafter,

and the rate of income tax payable on a part of such income(hereinafter in this section referred to as the relevant part ofincome) exceeds fifteen per centum, then, in regard to therelevant part of the income, the tax shall be computed asfollows :

(A) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such dividend

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevantpart of the income as is equal to the amountof such dividend shall be at the rate of fifteen percentum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of relevant part ofthe income shall be computed according to suchof the rates of above fifteen per centum as areapplicable thereto under this Act ; and

(B) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of such dividends, the tax payable on theentirety of the relevant part of the income shall be atthe rate of fifteen per centum notwithstanding anythingto the contrary in this Act.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000104

(2) Where the taxable income of any person (other than acompany) for any year of assessment includes any dividend

(a) being a dividend out of the qualified export profitsand income of a company

(i) referred to in section 45 or section 47 or theprofits and income referred to in section 49 orsection 50 paid during the period in which suchprofits and income are taxable at the rate of fifteenper centum or within one year thereafter;

(ii) which has entered into an agreement with theBoard of Investment of Sri Lanka under section17 of the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,No. 4 of 1978, being an agreement entered intoprior to December 31, 1994, on an applicationmade in that behalf prior to November 11, 1993,being profits and income in respect of which suchcompany has paid income tax at the rate of fifteenper centum paid during the period in which suchprofits and income are chargeable with incometax at the rate of fifteen per centum or within oneyear thereafter.

(b) being a dividend paid by any company out of suchdividend received by that company as is referred to insub paragraph (i) or sub paragraph (ii) of paragraph(a) if the first-mentioned dividend is paid during anyyear of assessment in which the second mentioneddividend was received by that company or within oneyear thereafter ; or

(c) being a dividend out of any such dividend as is referredto in sub paragraph (i) or sub paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (a) received by any company during theperiod for which the profits and income out of whichsuch dividends are paid are taxable at the rate of fifteen

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000105

per centum or within two years thereafter, if the first-mentioned dividend is paid during the year ofassessment in which the second mentioned dividendwas received by that company or within one yearthereafter,

and the rate of income tax payable on a part of such income(hereinafter in this section referred to as the relevant part ofincome) exceeds fifteen per centum, then, in regard to therelevant part of the income, the tax shall be computed asfollows :

(A) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such dividend :

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchdividend shall be at the rate of fifteen percentum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of relevant part ofthe income shall be computed according to suchof the rates of above fifteen per centum as areapplicable thereto under this Act ; and

(B) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of the such dividend, the tax payable on theentirety of the relevant part of the income shall beat the rate of fifteen per centum notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act.

(3) Subject to the provisions of section 58 where thetaxable income of any company includes any dividend referredto in subsection (1) or subsection (2) the rate of income taxapplicable to such part of such taxable income as consists ofsuch dividend shall be fifteen per centum.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000106

49.(1) Where any person or partnership who or whichcarries on any undertaking for the production or manufactureand supply to any specified undertaking referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (d) of section 52

(a) of any commodit [other than black tea in bulk, creperubber, sheet rubber, scrap rubber, coconut oil,desiccated coconut (other than desiccated coconutmanufactured by using continuous scale automatedprocess technology and marketed with a quality,guarantee) copra, fresh coconut, coconut fibre or suchother commodity as may be specified by the Ministerby notice published in the Gazette] for export by suchspecified undertaking without further production ormanufacture by such specified undertaking ; or

(b) of any goods for the production, manufacture orpackaging by such specified undertaking of anycommodity for export by such specified undertaking,

the profits and income from such supply (being profits andincome within the meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 otherthan any profits and income from the sale of capital assets),shall be chargeable with income tax in accordance with thesucceeding provisions of this section.

(2) Where any person referred to in subsection (1) is acompany (including a company being a partner of any suchpartnership) and the taxable income of such company for anyyear of assessment includes profits and income referred to insuch subsection then such company shall be chargeable withincome tax at the rate of fifteen per centum in respect of suchprofits and income.

(3) Where any person referred to in subsection (1) is anindividual (including an individual being a partner of suchpartnership) and the taxable income of such individual forany year of assessment includes profits and income referredto in such subsection and the rate of income tax payableon a part of such income (hereinafter in this section referred

Rate of incometax on deemedexports of anyperson orpartnership.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000107

to as the relevant part of income) exceeds fifteen per centum,then, in regard to the relevant part of the income, the tax shallbe computed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such profits and income :

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchprofit and income shall be at the rate of fifteenper centum ; and(ii) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according tosuch of the rates of above fifteen per centum asare applicable thereto under this Act ; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of such profits and income, the tax payableon the entirety of the relevant part of the income shallbe at the rate of fifteen per centum notwithstandingany thing to the contrary in this Act.

(4) The provisions of subsections (1), (2) and (3) shallapply if the supply referred to therein

(a) is made during the period for which

(i) the taxable income of the person who, or of anypartner of a partnership which, carried on thespecified undertaking referred to in subsection (1)is chargeable with income tax in accordance withthe provisions of this Chapter ; or

(ii) the export profit and income of the specifiedundertaking referred to in sublection (1) areexempt from income tax, under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 20 of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 28 of 1979 or in terms of an agreemententered into by such specified undertaking withthe Board of Investment of Sri Lanka undersection 17 of the Board of Investment of Sri LankaLaw, No. 4 of 1978 ; and

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000108

(b) is a supply in respect of which such documentaryevidence as is required to satisfy the Commissioner-General that the export relating to such supply werein fact made, is adduced.

50.(1) Where any resident company or any partnershipin Sri Lanka which, carries on or exercises any trade, business,profession or vocation earns in any year of assessment anyprofits and income in foreign currency in respect of service,rendered in that year of assessment, by such company or bysuch partnership outside Sri Lanka in the course of carryingon, exercising or carrying on such profession, vocation or anyconstruction project in the course of carrying on any trade orbusiness, and such profits and income so earned (less suchamount as the Commissioner-General considers to bereasonable expenses) are remitted to Sri Lanka by suchcompany or by such partnership, such profits and income shall,notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act, bechargeable with income tax in accordance with the succeedingprovisions of this section.

(2) Where the taxable income of any company referred toin subsection (1) for any year of assessment includes profitsand income referred to in such subsection then such companyshall be chargeable with income tax at the rate of fifteen percentum in respect of such profits and income.

(3) Where the taxable income for any year of assessmentreferred to in subsection (1) of any partner of any partnership(not being a company) includes any profits and incomereferred to in such subsection which accrued to him by wayof his share of profits from such partnership, and the rateof income tax payable on a part of such income (hereinafterin this section referred to as the relevant part of income)

Rate of incometax on profits andincome fromservices renderedout side Sri Lankaby any residentcompany orpartnership.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000109

exceeds fifteen per centum, then, in regard to therelevant part of the income, the tax shall be computed asfollows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such profits and income :

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchprofits and income shall be at the rate of fifteenper centum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according tosuch of the rates of above fifteen per centum asare applicable thereto under this Act ; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of such profits and income, the tax payableon the entirety of the relevant part of the income shallbe at the rate of fifteen per centum notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act.

51.(1) Where any individual or any partnership in SriLanka, earns in any year of assessment any emoluments andfees in foreign currency in respect of services rendered in SriLanka by such individual or by such partnership in Sri Lankato any person or partnership outside Sri Lanka, in the courseof any profession, or any vocation in the field of literature orfine arts, carried on or exercised by such individual or bysuch partnership in Sri Lanka but not in the course ofemployment under such person or partnership outside SriLanka, and such emoluments and fees are remitted to suchindividual or to such partnership in Sri Lanka through a bank,such emoluments and fees, shall notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in this Act, be chargeable with income tax inaccordance with the succeeding provisions of this section.

(2) Where the taxable income for any year of assessmentreferred to in subsection (1), of any individual includes anyemoluments and fees referred to in such subsection earned

Rate of incometax onemoluments andfees earned inforeign currencyby an individualor by partnership.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000110

by such individual or which accrued to such individual byway of his share of profits from any partnership in Sri Lankareferred to in subsection (1) and the rate of income tax payableon a part of such income (hereinafter in this section referredto as the relevant part of income) exceeds fifteen per centum,then, in regard to the relevant part of the income, the tax shallbe computed as follows :

(a) if the relevant part of the income exceeds the amountof such profits and income

(i) the tax payable on such part of the relevant partof the income as is equal to the amount of suchprofits and income shall be at the rate of fifteenper centum ; and

(ii) the tax payable on the balance of the relevant partof the income shall be computed according tosuch of the rates of above fifteen per centum asare applicable thereto under this Act ; and

(b) if the relevant part of the income does not exceed theamount of such profits and income, the tax payableon the entirety of the relevant part of the income shallbe at the rate of fifteen per centum notwithstandinganything to the contrary in this Act.

52.For the purpose of this Chapter

(a) qualified export profits and income in relation toany person means the sum which bears to the profitsand income (within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3 after excluding therefrom any profits andincome from the sale of gems and jewellery and anyprofits and income from the sale of capital assets) forthat year of assessment from any specified undertakingcarried on by such person, ascertained in accordancewith the provisions of this Act, the same proportionas the export turnover of that undertaking for that yearof assessment bears to the total turnover of thatundertaking for that year of assessment ;

Interpretation.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000111

(b) export turnover in relation to any specifiedundertaking means the total amount receivable,whether, received or not, by that undertaking from theexport of goods or commodities or from the provisionof any service referred to subparagraph (ii) ofparagraph (d), but does not include

(i) any amount receivable, whether received or not,from the export of gems or jewellery or from thesale of any capital assets ;

(ii) any amount receivable, whether received or not,from the export of black tea in bulk, crepe rubber,sheet rubber, scrap rubber, coconut oil, desiccatedcoconut (other than desiccated coconutmanufactured by using continuous scaleautomated process technology, and marketed witha quality guarantee), copra, fresh coconuts,coconut fibre or such other commodity as maybe specified by the Minister by Notice publishedin the Gazette ; or

(iii) any profits and income not being profits andincome within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3 ;

(c) total turnover in relation to any specifiedundertaking means the total amount receivable,whether received or not, by that undertaking from anytrade or business carried on by that undertaking butdoes not include any amount receivable, whetherreceived or not, from the sale of capital assets, gemsor jewellery or any profits and income not being profitsand income within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3 ;

(d) specified undertaking means any undertaking whichis engaged in

(i) the export of non-traditional goods manufactured,produced or purchased by such undertaking ; or

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000112

(ii) the performance of any service of ship repair, shipbreaking, repair and refurbishment of marinecargo containers, provision of computer software,computer programmes, computer systems orrecording computer data, or such other servicesas may be specified by the Minister by Noticepublished in the Gazette, for payment in foreigncurrency.

For the purposes of this section non-traditionalgoods means goods other than black tea in bulk, creperubber, sheet rubber, scrap rubber, coconut oil,desiccated coconut (other than desiccated coconutmanufactureed by using continuous scale automatedprocees technology and marketed with a qualityguarantee), copra, fresh coconuts coconut fibre or suchother commodity as may be specified by the Ministerby Notice published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER X

COMPANIES

53.(1) The income tax to which any company residentin Sri Lanka in any year of assessment shall be liable for thatyear of assessment shall consist of an amount

(a) calculated on the taxable income of such companyfor that year of assessment at the appropriate ratespecified in the Second Schedule to this Act ; and

(b) equal to fifteen per centum of the aggregate amountof the gross dividends distributed by such companyin that year of assessment out of the profits on whichthe taxable income of such company is computed forany year of assessment, :

Provided however a quoted public company shallnot be liable to pay income tax under pragraph (b) :

Income tax towhich anyresident companyis liable.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000113

Provided further that any company shall not beliable to pay income tax under paragraph (b) on anamount equal to the amount of any gross dividenddistributed by such company in any year of assessmentto a company or body of persons who or which isexempt from income tax under paragraph (a) of section8 ; or

(c) an amount equal to fifteen per centum of the aggregateamount of the gross dividend distributed to any non-resident person by a quoted public company in thatyear of assessment out of the profits on which thetaxable income of such company is computed for anyyear of assessment ;

(d) in the case of any public corporation not less thanseventy-five per centum of the capital of which isprovided by the Government, other than by way ofloan, for any year of assessment, an amount equal totwenty-five per centum of the balance of its profitsafter deducting therefrom the income tax payable forthat year of assessment under paragraph (a) :

Provided that where the aggregate amount of anygross dividend distributed in that year of assessmentout of the profits on which the taxable income ofsuch corporation is computed for any year ofassessment(i) is not less than twenty-five per centum of suchbalance, the provisions of this paragraph shallnot apply ; and

(ii) is less than twenty-five per centum of suchbalance, the tax to which such publiccorporation is liable under this paragraph, forthe relevant year of assessment, shall be anamount equal to the exceses of twenty-five percentum of such balance over such amount ofsuch dividend.For the purposes of this paragraph, the profits of theInsurance Corporation Ltd of Sri Lanka shall bedeemed not to include its profits from the business oflife insurance.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000114

(2) Where for any year of assessment the taxable incomeof a company includes any capital gain arising from the changeof ownership of any property, the provisions of subsection(4) and subsection (5) of section 32 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to the taxation of that capital gain.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1) amount of grossdividends of a company means

(i) where a deduction under section 61 is made bythe company in respect of its dividend, theamount of the dividend before such deductionis made ;

(ii) where no such deduction is made by thecompany in respect of its dividend, the amountof the dividend increased by seventeen andeleven-seventeenth per centum.

54.(1) Every company resident in Sri Lanka shall beliable to pay for every year of assessment a tax (hereinafterreferred to as the advance company tax) calculated at theappropriate rate specified in the Fifth Schedule to this Act asthe rate applicable to companies of that class, on an amountequal to the amount of every qualifying distribution made bythat company during that year of assessment.

(2) Every resident company, shall be entitled to deductfrom any quarterly instalment, referred to in section 105, ofincome tax payable by it under

(a) paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 53 ; or,

(b) section 45, section 47, section 49, or section 50, or

for any year of assessment, the advance company tax paidby it in that year of assessment, but prior to the date onwhich such instalment is required to be paid undersection 105.

Advance companytax on qualifyingdistribution towhich residentcompanies areliable.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000115

(3) The advance company tax paid by a company in anyyear of assessment which is in excess of the amount deductedfor that year of assessment under subsection (2) shall not berefunded to the company but shall be carried forward anddeducted, notwithstanding that the company may have ceasedto carry on any trade or business.

55.(1) Where a resident person, other than a companyreceives in any year of assessment, a dividend in relation towhich advance company tax under subsection (1) of section54 has been paid by any resident company, the statutoryincome of such person from such dividend for that year ofassessment shall be deemed to be a sum equal to the aggregateof the gross dividend and the advance company tax which isattributable to that dividend.

(2) Every resident person, other than a company, whosetotal statutory income for any year of assessment includes adividend in relation to which advance company tax undersubsection (1) of section 54 has been paid by any residentcompany, shall be entitled to deduct from the tax payable bysuch person for that year of assessment a sum equal to theadvance company tax which is attributable to that dividend.Where the amount to be so deducted exceeds the tax payableby him for that year of assessment, the excess shall, subjectto the provisions of Chapter XXIV, be refunded to such person.

56.Every resident company shall maintain for every yearof assessment a record indicating

(a) dividends received in the form of money or of an orderto pay money from other resident companies receivedon or after April 1, 1988, classified under the followingcategories and sub-categories :

(i) exempt dividends ;

Resident companyto maintain arecord ofdividendsreceived.

Dividendconsisting of anyqualifyingdistribution whenreceived by aresident personother than acompany.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000116

(ii) dividends in relation to which advance companytax has not been paid ;

(iii) other dividends

(A) dividends paid out of profits for any periodprior to April 1, 1988 ;

(B) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at fifty percentum.

(C) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at thirty threeand one-third per centum ;

(D) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at twenty-sevenper centum ;

(E) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at twenty fiveper centum ;

(F) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at eight percentum ;

(G) dividends in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at five percentum ; and

(b) profits and income, other than dividend income,arising or accruing on or after April 1, 1988, classifiedunder the following categories :

(i) exempt profits and income ;

(ii) profits and income taxable

(A) under section 32F, section 32H, section 32K,section 32M, section 32N and section32DDDD of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28of 1979 ;

(B) under section 45, section 47, section 49,section 50 and section 54 ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000117

(C) at the rates other than those specified in theSecond Schedule ; and

(iii) other profits and income ;

(c) details of dividends paid out during that year ofassessment, out of each of the categories andsub-categories of income set out in the foregoingparagraphs ;

(d) appropriations made during that year of assessmentout of each of the categories and sub-categories ofincome set out in the foregoing paragraphs, forpayment of taxes and reserves.

57.(1) The income tax to which a company which isnot resident in Sri Lanka in any year of assessment shall beliable for that year of assessment shall consist of

(a) a sum equal to the amount calculated at the ratespecified in the Second Schedule ; and

(b) where there are remittances of such company in thatyear of assessment a sum equal to

(i) thirty-three and one-third per centum of theaggregate amount of the remittances of suchcompany, if the amount of such remittances areless than one third of such taxable income ;or

(ii) eleven and one-ninth per centum of such taxableincome, if the aggregate amount of suchremittances are not less than one-third of suchtaxable income.

(2) In subsection (1), remittances with reference to anon-resident company mean

(a) sums remitted or retained abroad out of the profits ofthe company, such sums not including any dividendspaid by a resident company to such non-residentcompany ;

Income tax towhich any non-resident companyis liable.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000118

(b) such part of the proceeds of the sale abroad of productsexported by that company as is retained abroad ; and

(c) in respect of any products exported by that companyand not sold in a wholesale market or not sold at allsuch part of the profits deemed under section 78 to bederived from Sri Lanka as is retained abroad.

58.Where a dividend is paid by any resident companyto any resident or non-resident company and either

(a) a deduction has been made under section 61 in respectof that dividend by the first-mentioned residentcompany ; or

(b) that dividend is exempt from income tax under section11 ; or

(c) such dividend consists of any part of the amount of adividend received by the first-mentioned residentcompany from another resident company ; or

(d) such dividend is a dividend declared by a quoted publiccompany ,

such dividend shall, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin any other provision of this Act, be deemed not to form partof the assessable income of the second-mentioned company.

59.The profits of a company from transactions with itsshareholders which would be assessable if such transactionswere with persons other than its shareholders, shall be profitswithin the meaning of this Act.

60.Every resident company shall deduct from the amountof any dividend (hereinafter in this section referred to as therelevant dividend) which becomes payable to any non-resident person if the relevant dividend consists, of the wholeor any part of the amount of a dividend not being the wholeor any part of a dividend which is exempt from income taxunder this Act, distributed by any quoted public company andreceievd, either directly or through one or more intermediarycompanies, by such resident company, income tax equivalentto fifteen per centum of such relevant dividend and the amount

Certain dividendsnot to form part ofthe assessableincome of thereceivingcompany.

Profits of acompany fromtransactions withits shareholders.

Every residentcompany todeduct income taxfrom any dividendreceived from anyquoted publiccompany andpayable to anynon-residentperson.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000119

of the income tax which a residentt company is under thissection, required to deduct shall be a debt due from suchresident company to the State and shall be recoverableforthwith as such or may be assessed and charged upon suchresident company in addition to any income tax otherwisepayable by it :

Provided that in determinig for the purposes of this section,the amount of the relevant dividend, no account shall be takenof such part of such dividend as is distrubuted out of the profitsor income on which the taxable income of such residentcompany is computed for any year of assessment.

61.(1) Every resident company, other than a quotedpublic company, shall be entitled to deduct from the amountof any dividend payable to any shareholder, other than anyshareholder whose profits and income are exempt from incometax under paragraph (a) of section 8, in the form of money oran order to pay money out of the profits on which the taxableincome of that company is computed for any year ofassessment, income tax equal to fifteen per centum ;

Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions of thissubsection shall apply to any dividend declared by a quotedpublic company to any resident person.

For the purposes of this section in computing the amountof a dividend payable to any shareholder by a company, suchpart of that dividend as consists of any part of the amount ofa dividend received by that company from another residentcompany shall not be taken into account.

(2) Every person who issues a warrant, cheque or otherorder drawn or made in payment of any dividend whichbecomes payable by a resident company during any year ofassessment shall annex thereto a statement in such form asmay be specified by the Commissioner-General setting out

(a) the gross amount which after deduction of income taxthereon corresponds to the net amount actually paid ;

Resident companyentitled to deducttax from anydividend.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000120

(b) the sum deducted as income tax ;

(c) the net amount actually paid ;

(d) the composition of the gross dividend indicatingseparately the amount paid out of

(i) exempt dividends received ;

(ii) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at fifty four percentum ;

(iii) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at fifty per centum ;

(iv) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at thirty three andone-third per centum ;

(v) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at twenty seven percentum ;

(vi) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at twenty five percentum ;

(vii) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at seventeen percentum ;

(viii) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at eleven percentum ;

(ix) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at eight percentum ;

(x) dividends received, in relation to which advancecompany tax has been paid at five per centum ;

(xi) other dividends received ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000121

(xii) income exempt from income tax ;

(xiii) profits and income taxable at rates other thanthose specified in the Second Schedule to thisAct ; and

(xiv) other profits and income .

(e) the advance company tax paid in relation to such partof the dividend paid out of the other profits and incomereferred to in sub-paragraph (xiii) of the foregoingparagraph as consists of a qualifying distribution ;

(f) advance company tax paid by other residentcompanies in relation to such part of that dividend asis paid out of a dividend referred to in sub-paragraph(ii), sub-paragraph (iii), sub-paragraph (iv), sub-paragraph (v), sub-paragraph (vi), sub-paragraph (vii),sub-paragraph (viii), sub-paragraph (ix) or sub-paragraph (x) of paragraph (d).

(3) Every company resident in Sri Lanka shall, for everyyear of assessment furnish to the Commissioner-General onor before the thirtieth day of November immediatelysucceeding the end of that year of assessment, a statement insuch form as may be specified by the Commissioner-Generalsetting out the particulars of

(a) advance company tax paid in that year ofassessment ;

(b) any payments made in that year of assessment inrespect of tax under paragraph (a) of subsection (1)of section 53 for any year of assessment ;

(c) any payments made in that year of assessment inrespect of tax under section 32H or section 32K orsection 32M and section 32N of the Inland RevenueAct, No. 28 of 1979 for any year of assessment ; and

(d) any payments made in the year of assessment inrespect of tax under section 45, section 47, section 49and section 50 of this Act.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000122

(4) Where the statement referred to in subsection (2)discloses that a shareholder of a resident company received adividend which included the amount of any dividend receivedfrom any other resident company, then that amount shall, forthe purposes of determining the statutory income of suchshareholder for any year of assessment, be increased byseventeen and eleven-seventeenth per centum and he shall beentitled to deduct, from the tax payable by him, an amountequal to the said seventeen and eleven-seventeenth percentum :

Provided, however, that the preceding provisions of thissubsection shall not apply to, or in respect of

(a) a shareholder if such shareholder is a company ; or

(b) the amount of any dividend received from any othercompany if such dividend is exempt from income taxunder this Act.

(5) Where the assessable income of a person other than acompany includes a dividend from a resident company in theform of money or of an order to pay money, he shall be entitled,on production of a statement relating to such dividend madein accordance with subsection (2), to deduct from thetax payable by him, the amount of tax shown on suchstatement :

Provided that, where such person is not a resident person,he shall not be entitled to deduct, from the tax payable byhim, the advance company tax shown on such statement.

(6) Where for any year of assessment the assessableincome of a person other than a company includes a dividendfrom a resident company in the form of shares or debentures,he shall be entitled to deduct from the tax payable by him, anamount equal to an amount which the company would havebeen entitled under subsection (1) to deduct as tax onsuch dividend had such dividend been paid in the form ofmoney.

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000123

Certainundistributedprofits to betreated asdistributed.

62.(1) Where, in the case of a company controlled bynot more than five persons, the Assessor is satisfied that thecompany has not distributed to its shareholders a reasonablepart of its profits for any year of assessment, the Assessormay, subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4),treat the whole or a part of the profits of the company, afterdeducting therefrom any expenditure incurred for thedevelopment of the business of the company, (other than theprice paid for the purchase of an existing business or anagricultural undertaking), as distributed in the form ofdividends to the shareholders of the company on a datespecified by the Assessor.

(2) In determining under subsection (1) whether acompany has not distributed to its shareholders a reasonablepart of its profits, the Assessor shall have regard to

(a) the total amount of its profits ;

(b) the additional assessments, if any, made on thecompany ;

(c) the current requirements of the companys business ;and

(d) such other requirements as may be necessary oradvisable for the maintenance and development of thecompanys business.

(3) For the purposes of subsection (1) any of the followingsums shall be regarded as profits available for distributionamong the shareholders of the company and not as havingbeen applied or being applicable to the requirements of thecompanys business or to such other requirements as may benecessary or advisable for the maintenance and developmentof that business

(a) any sum expended or applied, or intended to beexpended or applied, out of the profits of the company,in the redemption or repayment of any share or loancapital or debt (including any premium on such shareor loan capital or debt) issued or incurred otherwisethan for adequate consideration ;

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000124

(b) any sum lent to a director or shareholder of thecompany ; and

(c) any sum expended or applied, or intended to beexpended or applied, in pursuance or in consequenceof any fictitious or artificial transactions.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (3), any share or loancapital or debt shall be deemed to be issued or incurredotherwise than for adequate consideration if it is issued orincurred

(a) for consideration the value of which to the companyis substantially less than the amount of the capital ordebt (including any premium thereon) ; or

(b) in or towards, or for the purpose of raising moneyapplied or to be applied in or towards, the redemptionor repayment of any share or loan capital or debt whichitself was issued or incurred for such consideration asis mentioned in paragraph (a) or which representsdirectly or indirectly, any share or loan capital or debtwhich itself was issued or incurred for suchconsideration,

and references in this subsection and in subsection (3) tomoney applied or to be applied for any purposes shall bedeemed to include references to money applied or to be appliedin or towards the replacement of that money.

(5) Where the Assessor under subsection (1) treats thewhole or a part of the profits of the company for any year ofassessment as distributed in the form of dividends toshareholders of the company such company shall be liable topay income tax for that year of assessment on the profits

Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000125

treated as so distributed at the highest rate at which incometax is chargeable for that year upon the taxable income of anindividual and such tax shall

(a) be in addition to and not in lieu of any income taxpayapbe by that company under any other provisionof this Act ; and

(b) be assessed and charged upon such compay by anAssessor, and the provisions relating to payment andrecovery shall apply accordingly.

(6) Where a company referred to in subsection (1) is beingwound up in pursuance of an order made by a court or aresolution passed on that behalf by the shareholders of thecompany, then the balance of the income after payment ofincome tax in the year of assessment in which such winding-up commences and for each subsequent year of assessmentuntil such winding-up is completed shall by regarded asincome distributed as dividends to such sharehloders.

(7) In this section, company controlled by not more thanfive persons means a company in which more than half thetotal shares issued is held by not more than five persons, theirwives or children, either directly or through nominees.

63.Where the profits and income of a company for anyyear of assessment or any part of such profits and income areappropriated by any director, manager, shareholder orexecutive officer of that company, such profits and income orsuch part of such profits and income shall form part of theprofits and income for that year of assessment of the personby whom such profits or income or part thereof areappropriated and shall be assessable accordingly and, theCommissioner-General may, taking into account all thecircumstances of the case, deduct such profits and income orpart thereof under subsection (1) of section 23 for the purposesof ascertaining the profits and income of that company forthat year of assessment.

Provisionsapplicable wherethe profits andincome of acompany areappropriated bythe director, & c.of that company.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.