i ; yf ‘
968-69,-.5 |
2 n 8 _ i _ 3 3 iF

= is

/
/

Radioactive Minerals Act,

No. 46 of 1968

Date of Assent : December 14, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GovERNMENT Press, CEYLON, To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PuBLICATIONS BuREAU, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each vent in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 60 cents Postage: 10 cents


Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

L. D.—O. 20/59.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION AND CONTROL
OF THE MINING, PRODUCTION AND TREATMENT OF
RADIOACTIVE MINERALS AND SUBSTANCES, AND TO
PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: December 14, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Radioactive Short title.
Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968.

2. (1) Any public servant authorized by the Power to abtem
Permanent Secretary may, by written notice served on ‘formation |
any person, require such person to make such returns, sib utaiicen:
at such times, and containing such particulars as may

be specified in the notice, of all or any of the following :

(a) any such prescribed substance specified in the
notice as is in his possession or under his
control;

- (b) any such minerals specified in the notice as are
in his possession or under his control or pre-
sent in or on land owned or occupied by him,
being minerals from which, in the opinion
of the Permanent Secretary, any of the
prescribed substances can be obtained.

(2) If any person—

(a2) fails to comply with any notice served on him
under sub-section (1), or

(b) knowingly makes any untrue statement in any
return made in pursuance of such notice,

he shall be guilty of an offence.

3. (1) Any person authorized by the Permanent Powers of entry
Secretary in that behalf may, on producing, if so and inspection.
required, a document signed by the Permanent Secre-
tary and showing that such person is so authorized,
enter at all reasonable hours, for the purpose of
inspection, any premises where such person has reason-
able grounds for believing that work is being carried

-out for the mining, production or treatment of radio-
active minerals and substances..

H 15735—8,005 (7/68)


Power to cause
work to be
done for
discovering
minerals from
which
prescribed
substances can
be obtained.

2 Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

(2) If any person wilfully obstructs any other person
exercising powers conferred on that other person by
sub-section (1), he shall be guilty of an offence.

4%. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this sec-_

tion, any person authorized by the Minister in that
behalf may on producing, if so required, a document
signed by the Minister and showing that such person
is so authorized, do on, over or below the surface of
any land such work as the Minister considers necessary
for the purpose of discovering whether there is present
in or on the land any minerals from which in the
opinion of such person any prescribed substance can
be obtained, and the extent to which any such mineral
is sO present.

(2) Before any powers are exercised under sub-
section (1) in relation to any land, the Minister shall
cause to be served on every owner, lessee and occupier
of the land a written notice specifying the nature of
the work proposed to be done and the time, not being
less than twenty-eight days, within which and the
manner in which objections can be made thereto, and
no such power shall be exercised otherwise than in
pursuance of the notice or before the expiry of the
time prescribed therein for making objections.

(3) If any person on whom a notice under sub-
section (2) is served makes an objection and does not

withdraw it, the Minister shall, before the person -

authorized in that behalf by the Minister under sub-
section (1) exercises any powers under that sub-section,
afford an opportunity to the person making the
objection of appearing before and being heard by a
person appointed by the Minister for the purpose and,

if the person making the objection avails himself of :

that opportunity, the Minister may afford to any
other person, to whom it appears to the Minister
expedient to afford it, an opportunity of appearing
and being heard on the same occasion.

(4) The Minister may, after considering the °

objections, if any, made by any of the persons on
whom a notice under sub-section (2) is served and the
report made on such objections by the person
appointed under sub-section (3), cause to be served
on the persons on whom that notice was served @

further written notice withdrawing or confirming the --

original notice, or modifying the terms thereof, and,


Radiouctive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968 3

in the case of modification, no power shall be exer-
cised under sub-section (1) otherwise than in
pursuance of the original notice as so modified.

(5) The powers conferred by sub-section (1) shall
be deemed to include the power to remove any work
constructed or other thing placed on, over or below
the surface of the land in the course of the exercise
of those powers, and to do such work as the Minister
or any person authorized in that behalf by the
Minister thinks fit for the purpose of restoring the
land wholly or partly to the condition in which it
would have been but for the exercise of those
powers.

(6) For the purpose of exercising the powers
conferred by the preceding provisions of this section,
any person authorized in that behalf by the Minister
may pass, with or without animals or vehicles, over
any land.

(7) If any person wilfully obstructs or interferes
with the exercise of powers under this section, he
shall be guilty of an offence.

(8) Compensation shall be determined and paid by
the Minister in accordance with the First Schedule
to this Act in respect of any land on which powers
under this section are exercised.

5. (1) Where it appears to the Minister that any
minerals from which in his opinion any prescribed
substance can be obtained are present in or on any
land, the Minister may, subject to the provisions of
section 6, by Order published in the Gazette compul-
sorily acquire the exclusive right in respect of that
land, so long as the Order remains in force, to
prospect for, mine and remove all minerals from
which in his opinion any prescribed substance can be
obtained.

(2) Where an Order under sub-section (1) is in
force in respect of any land, the Minister shall have
all the rights ancillary to the exclusive right acquired
by him by that Order. Such ancillary rights shall,
without prejudice to the generality of the preceding
provisions of this sub-section, include— .

(a) rights necessary for the purpose of access to
or conveyance of the aforesaid minerals or
the ventilation or drainage of the mines;

The Minister
to have the
exclusive right
to prospect for.
Mine and
remove minerals
from which
any prescribed
substance can
be obtained,


Proceedings
preceding the
making of an
Order under
section 5.

4 Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

(0) rights to use and occupy the surface of any
land for the purpose of erecting any neces-
sary buildings and installing any necessarv
plant in connection with the extraction of
the aforesaid minerals; and

(c) rights to obtain a supply of water for purposes
connected with the operations for the extrac-
tion of the aforesaid minerals, or to dispose
of water or other liquid matter obtained in
consequence of such operations.

(3) An Order made under this section shall provide
for the payment of compensation by the Minister in
such cases and subject to such conditions as may be
specified in the Order or determined thereunder, in
respect of loss suffered as the result of the exercise
of rights under such Order including rights under
sub-section (2), but in calculating such compensation
no account shall be taken of the value of any minerals
present in or on the land affected by such Order,
being minerals from which in the opinion of the

Wiinister any prescribed substance can be obtained.

(4) Compensation in respect of any minerals
removed by the Minister from a land, other than
land disposed of by the Crown with an express or
implied reservation to minerals in favour of the
Crown, in pursuance of an Order under sub-section
(1) which is in force in respect of that land shall be
paid by the Minister in accordance with the Second
Schedule to this Act.

6. (1) Before an Order is made and published
under sub-section (1) of section 5, notice of the Order
as proposed to be made shall be caused by the
Minister to be published in the Gazette and in at
least one Sinhala, one Tamil and one English news-
paper circulating in Ceylon.

(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a notice shall
be sufficient notice of a proposed Order if it sets out
the purport of such Order and specifies a place where
copies of such Order may be inspected free of charge
at all reasonable hours.

(3) A notice under sub-section (1) shall contain a
statement to the effect that objections may be made
to the proposed Order within such time, not being
less than twenty-eight days, and in such manner as
shall be specified in the notice, and if any such objec-
tion is duly made and is not withdrawn, the Minister


Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968 5

shall afford an opportunity to the person making the
objection of appearing before and being heard by a
person appointed by the Minister for the purpose.
The person so appointed shall make a report on such
objections to the Minister.

(4) The Minister shall consider the objections duly
made in consequence of a notice under sub-section (1)
and the report made on such objections under
sub-section (3).

7. (1) The Minister may, subject to and in
accordance with the Third Schedule to this Act,
compulsorily acquire all or any of the following : —

(a) any prescribed substances ;

(b) any minerals from which in the opinion of the
Minister any prescribed substance can be
obtained; and

(c) any treatment plant designed or adapted for the
production of radioactive minerals and
substances.

(2) In the case of any such plant affixed to any land
as is compulsorily acquired by the Minister under
sub-section (1), the Minister may cause it to he
severed from the land, and shall, if such severance is
made, cause any damage caused by such severance to
be made good.

(3) Compensation in respect of the acquisition of
any article under this section shall be paid by the
Minister in accordance with the Second Schedule to
this Act.

8. (1) The Minister may by Order published in
the Gazette provide for prohibiting except under
the authority of a licence granted by the Minister and
subject to such conditions as may be specified in the
licence, the mining, production, treatment and trans-
port of minerals specified in the Order, being minerals
from which in the opinion of the Minister any
prescribed substances can be obtained. Any such
Order may contain such incidental and supplementary
provisions as the Minister considers necessary.

(2) An Order under sub-section (1) may provide
for the seizure of any article in respect of which there
are reasonable grounds for suspecting that a contra-
vention of the Order has been committed, and for the

Compulsory
acquisition by’
the Minister
of prescribed
substances and»
minerals and
plant.

Contro} of.
mining,
production,
treatment and
transport of
radioactive
minerals ang
substances.


Service of
notices.

Expenses and
compensation.

6 Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

retention of any such article pending the institution
and final determination of proceedings in respect of
the contravention, and for the disposal, if the
proceedings lead finally to a conviction, of any such
article.

(3) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply
with an Order under sub-section (1) or any condition
subject to which a licence was granted under such an
Order shall be guilty of an offence.

9. Any notice required or authorized by or under
this Act to be served on any person may be served—

(a) by delivering it to that person ; or

(b) by leaving it, or sending it by post in a regis-
tered letter addressed to him, at his usual
or last known residence or place of business:
or

(c) in the case of a corporation, by delivering it to
the secretary or any other officer of that
corporation at its registered or principal
office, or by sending it by post in a
registered letter addressed to him at that
office; or

(dz) in the case of a notice to be served on an owner,
lessee, or occupier of land, if it is not
practicable after reasonable inquiry to ascer-
tain his name or address, by addressing it to
him by the description ‘‘ owner ’’, ‘‘ lessee ”’
or ‘occupier ’’ of the land (describing it)
to which it relates, and by delivering it to
some person on the premises, or, if there is
no person on the premises to whom it may
be delivered, by affixing it, or a copy of it,
to some conspicuous part of the premises.

40. Any expenses incurred by the Minister or the
Permanent Secretary in the exercise of powers or the
performance of functions under this Act and any
sums required by or under any provision of this Act to
be paid to any person by way of compensation or
interest thereon shall be defrayed or paid out of
moueys granted for the purpose by Parliament or by
resolution of the House of Representatives.


fed

Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968 /

44. (1) Any person who is guilty of an offence
under this Act shall, on conviction after summary
trial before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding three
- months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees
or to both such imprisonment and such fine.

(2) Where any offence under this Act has been
committed by a body corporate, every person who at the
time of the commission of the offence was a director,
general manager, secretary or other similar officer cf
that body, or was purporting to act in any such
capacity, shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence
unless he proves that the offence was committed with-
out his consent or connivance and that he exercised
all such diligence to prevent the commission of the
offence as he ought to have exercised having regard
to the nature of his functions in that capacity and to
all the circumstances.

12. (1) The Minister may make regulations
generally for the purpose of giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act and particularly
in respect of any matter which is stated or required
by this Act to be prescribed or for which regulations
are required by any provision of this Act to be made.

(2) No regulation made under this section shall have
effect until it is approved by the Senate and the House
of Representatives and notice of such approval is
published in the Gazette.

13. The provisions of this Act shall be in addition
to and not in substitution for or derogation of the
provisions of any other written law relating to mines,
quarries and minerals or the employment of persons
or the conditions of workers in relation thereto:

_ Provided that, where the provisions of this Act are
in conflict with any such other provision or written
law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

14. In this Act unless the context otherwise

requires—

“minerals ’’ include all substances obtained or
obtainable from the soil by underground or
surface working;

‘‘ Permanent Secretary ’’ means the Permanent
Secretary to the Ministry of which the
Minister is in charge;

Punishment for
offences under
this Act.

Regulations.

Provisions of
this Act to be
supplemental to
other law.

Interpretation.


[Section 4 (8)]

8 Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

‘* prescribed substance ’’ means uranium, thorium,
beryllium, lithium or any of their com-
pounds, or any other substance which the
Minister may by notification in the Gazette
prescribe, being a substance which, in his
opinion, is or may be used for the production
or use of atomic energy or research into
matters connected therewith;

‘treatment plant’’ includes any machinery,
equipment or appliance, whether affixed to
land or not.

FIRST SCHEDULE

COMPENSATION FOR WORK DONE ON A LAND IN SEARCHING FOR
MINERALS.

1. When compensation is payable under sub-section (8) of
section 4 of this Act in respect of powers exercised under that
section on any land, the compensation shall be—

(a) a sum equal to the rent which might reasonably be
expected to be payable by a tenant in occupation of the
land, during the period when powers under section 4 of
this Act are exercised on the land, under a lease
granted immediately before the beginning of that period,
whereby the tenant undertakes to pay all usual rates
and taxes and to bear the cost of the repairs and
insurance and the other expenses, if any, necessary to
maintain the land in a state to command that rent, and

(b) a sum equal to the cost of making good any damage to the
land which may have occurred during the aforesaid
period in consequence of the exercise of the aforesaid
powers, except in so far as the damage has been made
good during the aforesaid period by the Minister.

2. Any compensation under sub-paragraph (a) of paragraph
1 of this Schedule shall accrue due on the last day of each month
in the period for which that compensation is payable, and shall
be paid to the person who would be entitled to occupy the
land during that period but for the exercise of powers under
section 4 of this Act on the land.

3. Any compensation under sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph 1
of this Schedule shall accrue due at the end of the period during
which powers under section 4 of this Act are exercised on the
land, and shall be paid to the person who is then the owner of
the land.


Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968 9

4. Any compensation payable in accordance with this
Schedule shall carry interest, as from the time at which it
accrues due, until payment, at such rate per annum as the
Minister of Finance may from time to time by Order published
in the Gazette prescribe.

5. Any dispute as to whether any compensation is payable
in accordance with this Schedule, or as to the amount of such
compensation, or the persons to whom it is payable shall be
referred to and determined by an arbitrator to be appointed by
agreement between the parties to the dispute or, in default
of such agreement, by an arbitrator appointed by the District
Judge of Colombo. ‘he arbitrator may, if he thinks fit, be
assisted by not more than two assessors, and the fees of the
arbitrator and assessors shall be payable by the parties to the
dispute in such proportion as the arbitrator determines.

SECOND SCHEDULE

COMPENSATION FOR THE REMOVAL OF MINERALS FROM A LAND
OR FOR THE COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF ANY ARTICLE.

1. Where compensation is payable under sub-section (4) of
section 5 of this Act in respect of any minerals removed from
a land, or under sub-section (3) of section 7 of this Act in
respect of any article compulsorily acquired, the compensation
shall be a sum equal to the price which the owner thereof might
reasonably have been expected to obtain upon a sale thereof
effected by him—

(a) in the case of such minerals, immediately before the date
of publication in the Gazette of the Order in pursuance
of which such minerals are removed, and

(b) in the case of such article, immediately before the date
of the service of the notice of acquisition.

Such compensation shall accrue due, in the case of such
minerals, on the date of removal of such minerals from the
land, and, in the case of such article, on the date of the service
of the notice of acquisition, and shall be paid to the owner.

2. <Any dispute as to whether any compensation is payable
in accordance with this Schedule, or as to the amount of such
compensation, or the persons to whom it is payable shall be
referred to and determined by an arbitrator to be appointed by
agreement between the parties to the dispute or, in default of
such agreement, by an arbitrator appointed by the District
Judge of Colombo. The arbitrator may, if he thinks fit, be
assisted by not more than two assessors, and the fees of the
arbitrator and assessors shall be payable by the parties to the
dispute in such proportion as the arbitrator determines.

[Section 5 (4
and 7 (3).


{Section 7 (1)]

10 Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 of 1968

3. Any compensation payable in accordance with this Schedule
shall carry interest, as from the time at which it accrues due,
until payment, at such rate as the Minister of Tinance may
from time to time by Order published in the Gazette prescribe.

4. ‘‘ Notice of acquisition ’’ has the same meaning as in
the Third Schedule.

THIRD SCHEDULE
COMPULSORY ACQUISITION OF ARTICLES.

1. Where the Minister proposes to acquire any article under
section 7 of this Act the Permanent Secretary shall cause to

- be served upon the person appearing to the Permanent Secretary

to be the owner thereof a notice in writing (hereinafter and in
the Second Schedule referred to as a ‘“‘ notice of acquisition ’’)
specifying the article to be acquired and requiring that person
to make to the Permanent Secretary within a time specified
in the notice a written declaration containing such particulars
as may be so specified in regard to the ownership of that article
and to any agreement or charge by virtue of which any other
person has an interest in that article.

2. Upon the service of a notice of acquisition under paragraph
1 of this Schedule no article to which the notice relates shall
be removed from the premises in which the article is situate
at the time of the service of the notice without the consent
of such person as is specified in the notice; and if any person
knowingly removes, or causes or permits to be removed, any
article in contravention of this paragraph, he shall be guilty of
an offence.

3. If it appears to the Permanent Secretary in consequence
of any written declaration made to the Permanent Secretary in
pursuance of paragraph 1 of this Schedule or otherwise that any
person other than the person on whom the notice of acquisition
was served is the owner of, or has any interest in, any article
to which the notice relates, the Permanent Secretary shall cause
to be served a copy of the notice of acquisition on that other

person.

4. A notice of acquisition shall contain a statement to the
effect that objection may be made thereto within such time
(not being less than twenty-eight days) and in such manner
as may be specified in the notice, and if any such objection
is duly made and not withdrawn, the Permanent Secretary shall
afford an opportunity to the person making the objection of
appearing before and being heard by a person appointed by
the Permanent Secretary for the purpose, and, if the person
making the objection avails himself of the opportunity, the
Permanent Secretary may afford to any other person to whom
it appears to the Permanent Secretary expedient to afford it.
an opportunity of being heard on the same occasion.

5. If any such objection as aforesaid is duly made and not
withdrawn, the Permanent Secretary shall, after considering
such objection and the report of the person appointed by the
Permanent Secretary under paragraph 4 of this Schedule, cause


Radioactive Minerals Act, No. 46 0f 1968 = 11

to be served on the person upon whom the notice of acquisition
or a copy thereof was served a further notice in writing either
withdrawing the notice of acquisition or confirming it as respects
all the articles to which it relates or such of those articles as
may be specified.

6. Any article with respect to which a notice of acquisition
is served under this Schedule shall—

(a) if no objection is duly made to the notice, vest, absolutely
and free from all encumbrances, in the Minister at the
expiration of the time for making such an objection,
and

(b) if such an objection is duly made and the notice is
confirmed as respects that article by a notice served
under paragraph 5 of this Schedule, vest, absolutely
and free from all encumbrances, in the Minister on
the service of the last-mentioned notice.
