PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFFACT, No. 35 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 09th July, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 11.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 10, 2009

1Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

[Certified on 09th July, 2009]

L.D.O. 25/2008.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE APPOINTMENT OF A PERSON TO BE THE

CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFF WHO SHALL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR

THE CO-ORDINATION OF ACTIVITIES AS BETWEEN THE ARMED FORCES

AND THE MINISTRY OF DEFENCE; FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THECOMMITTEE OF THE CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFF ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

FUNCTIONS OF THE CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFF ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Chief of DefenceStaff Act, No. 35 of 2009. The provisions of this Act, otherthan this section shall come into operation on such date ordates as the Minister may, by Order published in the Gazetteappoint (hereinafter referred to as the appointed date).

(2) The provisions of this section shall, in terms ofparagraph (1) of Article 80 of the Constitution, come intooperation on the date on which the Certificate of the Speakeris endorsed on the Bill.

(3) Different dates may be appointed for bringing intooperation different provisions or Parts of this Act.

PART I

APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFF

2.(1) The President shall appoint from among thepersons presently serving as Commander of the Army,the Commander of the Navy or the Commander of theAir Force as the case may be, an officer to be the Chief ofDefence Staff.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Appointment ofthe Chief ofDefence Staff.

Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 20092

(2) The Chief of Defence Staff shall function under thedirection, supervision and control of the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister in charge of the subject of Defence(hereinafter referred to as the Secretary).

(3) Where an officer serving as the Commander of theArmy, the Commander of the Navy or the Commander of theAir Force as the case may be, is appointed as the Chief ofDefence Staff, he shall, upon being so appointed, relinquishhis position as the Commander of the Army, the Commanderof the Navy or the Commander of the Air Force, as the casemay be :

Provided that notwithstanding anything to the contrarycontained in the Army Act (Chapter 357), the Navy Act(Chapter 358) and the Air Force Act (Chapter 359), the personso appointed as Chief of Defence Staff shall, for so long ashe holds such position, continue to be a member of the regularforce of the service to which he belonged at the time of hisappointment under subsection (1) :

Provided further, when such officer relinquisheshis position as the Commander of the Army, theCommander of the Navy or the Commander of the Air Force,as the case may be, the officer so appointed shall, from thedate of such appointment, be deemed to continue as a memberof the regular force of the respective service to which hebelonged prior to such appointment, notwithstandinganything to the contrary in the Army Act (Chapter 357), theNavy Act (Chapter 358) or theAir Force Act (Chapter 359) asthe case may be.

(4) The Chief of Defence Staff shall, while so servingin the office of the Chief of Defence Staff, hold the rank ofGeneral in the case of an officer of the Army, Admiral in thecase of an officer of the Navy, and Air Chief Marshal in thecase of an officer of the Air Force.

3Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

3.(1) The Chief of Defence Staff shall, subject to thepleasure of the President, hold office for a term of two years.

(2) An officer serving as the Chief of Defence Staff shallbe eligible to be reappointed in like manner for two moreyears :

Provided that such period of two years shall be grantedby reappointments for one year at a time; provided, the totalperiod of the term of office of the Chief of Defence Staffshall not in the aggregate exceed four years:

Provided further, that in a time of public emergency, thePresident may reappoint the officer serving as the Chief ofDefence Stafffor any number of such terms of office.

(3) The Chief of Defence Staff may, by letter addressed tothe President in that behalf tender his resignation from theoffice of Chief of Defence Staff, at any time before the expiryof his term of office.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), aChief of Defence Staff who tenders his resignation, shall notbe relieved of the duties of his appointment, until theacceptance of such resignation by the President is notifiedto him in writing.

(5) In the event of death, retirement, resignation ordisability or removal from office of the Chief of DefenceStaff before the expiry of his term of office, the Presidentshall, having regard to the provisions of this section, appointanother officer in his place.

(6) The officer so appointed under subsection (5) shallhold office for the unexpired period of the term of office ofthe particular Chief of Defence Staff whom he succeeds.

(7) Where a vacancy occurs in the office of Chief ofDefence Staff, due to death, retirement, resignation, disabilityor removal, the President may nominate from among the

Term of office&c., of the Chiefof DefenceStaff.

Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 20094

members of the Committee of the Chief of Defence Staff, amember to temporarily perform the duties and functions ofthe office of the Chief of Defence Staff in addition to hisduties as Commander of the Army, Commander of the Navyor Commander of the Air Force as the case may be, until asuccessor is appointed or, in the case of absence or temporarydisability of the Chief of Defence Staff, until he returns tooffice or the disability ceases.

(8) A member of the Chief of Defence Staff Committeewho is so nominated under the provisions of subsection (7)shall perform the duties and functions of the office of Chiefof Defence Staff until a successor is appointed or until thereturn to office of the Chief of Defence Staff as the casemay be.

4.The Chief of Defence Staff may be removed at anytime by the President taking into consideration issues ofnational security, without assigning reasons therefor.

5.Subject to the authority, direction, control andsupervision of the Secretary, the functions of the Chief ofDefence Staff shall be

(a)to assist in providing for the strategic direction ofthe armed forces ;

(b)to develop a doctrine for the joint employment ofthe armed forces ;

(c)to facilitate the preparation of strategic plans forthe armed forces ;

(d)to co-ordinate matters in respect of the functionsrelating to intelligence as between the armedforces ;

(e)to undertake assessments to determine thecapabilities of the armed forces in comparison withthose of their potential adversaries ;

Removal ofChief ofDefence Staff.

Functions of theChief ofDefence Staff.

5Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

(f)to facilitate the preparation of operational plans forthe armed forces and to co-ordinate theimplementation of the same as between the armedforces ;

(g)to prepare and review contingency plans relatingto the armed forces ;

(h)to tender advise on critical deficiencies andstrengths and assess the effect of such deficienciesand strengths

(i)in meeting national security objectives ; and

(ii)in ensuring conformity with policy ;

(i)to tender advise on the extent to which theprogrammes, recommendations and budgetproposals of the armed forces for a fiscal yearconform to the priorities established in relation tostrategic plans ;

(j)to tender advise on the extent to which the majorprogrammes and policies of the armed forcesrelating to manpower and equipment conform tostrategic plans ;

(k)to assess military requirements as against theproposed defence procurement plans and to advisethe Ministry accordingly ;

(l)to facilitate the formulation of policies for the jointtraining of the armed forces ;

(m)to facilitate the formulation of policies forpeace-keeping operations by the armed forces ; and

(n)to do all such other things as are required or arenecessary for the implementation of the above.

Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 20096

PART II

COMMITTEE OF THE CHIEF OF DEFENCE STAFF

6. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of thisAct, a Committee of the Chief of Defence Staff (hereinafterreferred to as the Committee) within the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of Defence.

(2) The Committee of the Chief of Defence Staff shallconsist of

(a)the Chief of Defence Staff appointed by thePresident under section 2, who shall be theChairman ;

(b)the Commander of the Army ;

(c)the Commander of the Navy ; and

(d)the Commander of the Air Force.

7. (1) The Chairman shall facilitate the implementationof all matters as between the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Defence and the armed forces, inrelation to military matters.

(2) The Chairman shall in consultation with theCommander of the Army, the Commander of the Navy andthe Commander of the Air Force, discharge the functionsarising out of subsection (1) under the direction andsupervision of the Secretary.

(3) The Chairman shall, in carrying out his functions inrespect of any matter, take into consideration the range ofmilitary advice and opinions with respect to such matter ashe considers appropriate.

(4) The Chairman shall establish procedures to ensure tothe greatest extent possible, that the presentation of his ownadvice or opinion is not unduly delayed.

Committee ofthe Chief ofDefence Staff.

The Chairman tofacilitateimplementation.

7Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

PART III

STAFF

8. (1) There shall be established an office of the Chiefof Defence Staff which shall consist of such staff, comprisingboth armed forces personnel and civilian personnel. Thecivilian personnel may be deployed from among personspresently in the public service in keeping with theadministrative regulations as are applicable thereto.

(2) The Secretary may also recruit staff if it be so necessaryfor the office of the Chief of Defence Staff, in accordancewith the administrative regulations and the rules of thePublic Service Commission as are in force.

(3) Where armed forces personnel are deployed for servicein the office of the Chief of Defence Stafe, such deploymentshall be done by the Secretary in consultation with theCommander of the Army, the Commander of the Navy or theCommander of the Air Force, as the case may be.

9. (1) At the request of the Secretary, an officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and thePublic Service Commission, be temporarily appointed tothe staff of the office of the Chief of Defence Staff, for suchperiod as may be determined by the Secretary.

(2) Where an officer of the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the office of the Chief of DefenceStaff, such appointment shall be subject to such terms andconditions as are not less favourable than those enjoyed bysuch officer on the day prior to the date of such appointmentand such other government regulations as are applicablethereto.

(3) Where the office of the Chief of Defence Staff employsany person who has agreed to serve the government for aspecified period the service to the office of the Chief ofDefence Staff by that person, shall be regarded as service tothe Government for the purpose of discharging thatobligation for such agreement.

Staff.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the office ofthe Chief ofDefence Staff.

Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 20098

10. (1) At the request of the Secretary, an officer orservant of any public corporation may, with consent of suchofficer or servant and the governing board of such publiccorporation, be temporarily appointed to the staff of theoffice of the Chief of Defence Staff for such period as may bedetermined by the Secretary, on such terms and conditionsas may be agreed upon by the Secretary and the governingboard of such corporation.

(2) Where an officer or servant of a public corporation istemporarily appointed to the staff of the office of the Chiefof Defence Staff, the provisions of subsection (2) of section14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No. 37 of1991 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation tosuch officer.

(3) Where any person is appointed under subsection (1)to the staff of the office of the Chief of Defence Staff suchperson shall be subject to the same disciplinary control asany other member of the staff.

PART IV

GENERAL

11. (1) The Minister may make regulations under thisAct for the purpose of carrying out or giving effect to theprinciples and provisions of this Act or in respect of anymatter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect ofwhich regulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing,the Minister may make regulations in respect of thefollowing :

(a)joint doctrine, training and professional militaryeducation;

(b)the programmes and courses that may be conductedin institutions established for the conduct ofmilitary education ;

Appointment ofofficers andservants ofpubliccorporations tothe staff of theoffice of theChief ofDefence Staff.

Regulations.

9Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

(c)the establishment of databases and systems forcollection, collation and storage of informationrelating to operations of the armed forces ;

(d)policies for peace-keeping operations ;

(e)guidelines for determining the terms and conditionsapplicable to personnel recruited on contractualbasis to the office of the Chief of Defence Staff ;

(f)qualifications of experts whose services may beobtained for the office of the Chief of Defence Staff ;

(g)programmes and projects for human resourcesdevelopment within the office of the Chief ofDefence Staff.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as maybe specified therein.

(4) Every regulation shall, within three months of thepublication of the same in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation that is not soapproved by Parliament shall be deemed to be rescindedfrom the date of its disapproval but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is deemed to be rescinded shall be publishedin the Gazette.

12.(1) The Minister may, in consultation with theSecretary, make rules generally for the efficient functioningof the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofDefence, and in particular in respect of the followingmatters :

(a)dress code including uniforms to be worn by personsserving in the Ministry ; and

Rules.

Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 200910

(b)the conduct and duties and functions of personsserving in the office of the Chief of Defence Staff.

(2) Every rule made by the Minister under subsection (1)shall be published in the Gazette.

13.Any person who contravenes the provisions of anyregulation or rule made under this Act shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction after summary trial before aMagistrate be liable to imprisonment for a term notexceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding rupees onehundred thousand.

14.The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything contained in any other writtenlaw and accordingly in the event of any conflict orinconsistency between the provisions of this Act and suchother written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

15.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

16.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

armed forces means the Sri Lanka Army, the Sri

Lanka Navy and the Sri Lanka Air Force,established respectively under the Army Act(Chapter 357), the Navy Act (Chapter 358)and the Air Force Act (Chapter 359).

Penalty forcontravention ofregulations orrules.

This Act toprevail overother writtenlaw.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof anyinconsistency.

Interpretation.

11Chief of Defence Staff Act, No. 35 of 2009

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.