PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

DEDIGAMA SRI MAITHRI PRAGNARTHABOUDDHA EDUCATIONAL DAHAMSABHAWA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 35 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

L.D.O. (Inc.) 2/2021

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE DEDIGAMA SRI MAITHRIPRAGNARTHA BOUDDHA EDUCATIONAL DAHAM SABHAWA

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theDedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha EducationalDaham Sabhawa has heretofore been established inSri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out itsobjects and transacting all matters connected with the saidFoundation according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Dedigama Sri MaithriPragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham Sabhawa(Incorporation) Act, No. 35 of 2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theDedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha EducationalDaham Sabhawa (hereinafter referred to as the Foundation)and shall hereafter be admitted as members of the bodycorporate hereby constituted shall have perpetual successionunder the name and style of the Dedigama Sri MaithriPragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham Sabhawa(hereinafter referred to as the body corporate), and by thatname may sue and be sued with full power and authority tohave, and use a common seal and to alter the same at itspleasure.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporationof theDedigama SriMaithriPragnarthaBouddhaEducationalDahamSabhawa

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

2Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3. Subject to the provisions of any other written law thegeneral objects for which the body corporate is constitutedare hereby declared to be

(a)to promote and guide the Buddhist adherence topractice prathipathi pooja to reach Nibbana;

(b)to publish books relating to Buddhism for theenhancement and development of religiousknowledge on Seela, Samadhi and Pragnya of theBuddhist adherence;

(c)to safeguard and practice the Kathikavatha ofDedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha thero;

(d)to take steps to enhance the knowledge of newlyordained monks and lay Buddhists attached to theDedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa by teaching Dammathrough the guidance of the adult monks whopossess and in-depth uderstanding of the Buddhistdoctrine and discipline;

(e)to distribute the four requisites received by theBuddhist Monks attached to the Sri SambodhiAranya Senasanas belonging to the Dedigama SriMaithri Pragnartha Bouddha Educational DahamSabhawa for the use of other Buddhist monksattached to the Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa in order to estabishequality;

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(f)to facilitate activities ralating to Buddhism for theusage of Bhikku, Bhikkuni, Upasaka and Upasikain order to achieve the goals of Sri MaithriPragnartha Bouddha Educational Daham Sabhawa;

(g)to work in compliance with the constitution of theDedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa;

(h)to conduct sil and meditation programmes on Poyadays and conduct Damma discussions on everyweek to guide Buddhist adherence to reach Nibbanaand to abstain from sinful acts by givingprominence to Principles of Buddhism;

(i)to take steps to protect the books, videos andDamma speeches ralating to the religious activitiesof Venerable Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnarthathero; and

(j)to set up new Sri Smabodhi Aranya Senasana inareas where groups of Buddhist adherence whopractice Buddhism live and who wish to contributefor such Sri Sambodhi Aranya Senasana.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout subject to necessary approvals under applicable writtenlaws in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council, Local Authorityor public Corporation.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict with thework of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil, etc.

4Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, any otherwritten law and the rules made under section 7, themanagement and administration of the affairs of the bodycorporate shall be carried out by a Committee of Management(hereinafter referred to as the Committee) consisting ofsuch number of office bearers as may be specified by therules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The members of the Committee of Management ofthe Foundation holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the date of commencement of this Act shall, subjectto the rules made under paragraph (b), function as an InterimCommittee of the body corporate until the first Committee isappointed or elected within the period specified in paragraph(d) and in the manner provided for by rules made undersection 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimCommittee of the body corporate shall have the power tomake rules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstCommittee of the body corporate not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law:

Provided that, the provisions of subsections (2) and (3) ofsection 7 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the rules madeunder subsection (2).

(c) Any decision of the Interim Committee shall be takenby the majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The first Committee of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

5Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Committee including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Committee shall having regard to the rules of thebody corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute the acts and matters as are necessary ordesirable for the promotion or attainment of the objects ofthe body corporate or any one of them, including thefollowing power

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as determined by theCommittee with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of the powersof the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

6Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Provided that, the Committee shall obtain theprior written approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Committee may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and other employees of the bodycorporate and exercise disciplinary control overthem and to pay them such salaries, allowances andgratuities, as may be determined by the bodycorporate;

(h)to organize, lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

7Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate;

(j)to train personnel in Sri Lanka or abroad with aview to promoting the objects of the body corporatefor the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k)to do all other acts and things authorized by thisAct for the achievement of the objects of the bodycorporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Committee orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers andemployees of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the Committee ornotices and agenda of such meetings, the quorumand the conduct of business thereat;

Rules of thebody corporate

8Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Committee and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate;

(g)the procedure governing the manner of liaising andcoordinating with other local and foriegninstitutions having objects similar to that of thebody corporate; and

(h)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1), shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into effect on thedate thereof.

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate within threemonths after its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any rule which is not so approvedshall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

9Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

8.The Committee shall maintain a register of membersin which name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be deposited inone or more banks approved by the Committee to the creditof the body corporate subject to the provisions of section6(c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor appointed by Auditor Generalin terms of provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution andbe certified by such qualified Auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section a qualified auditormeans

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

10Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiceas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11.(1) The Committee shall prepare a report of theactivities of the body corporate for each financial year andsubmit such report together with the audited statement ofaccounts and a list of all assets and liabilities of the bodycorporate certified by a qualified Auditor referred to insection 10 to the Secretary of the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Buddhasasana and to the Registrarof Voluntary Social Services Organizations appointed underthe Voluntary Social Services Organizations (Registrationand Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expirationof six months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate, the detailsof all contracts and agreements entered into by the bodycorporate and the rules of the body corporate made undersection 7 during the financial year shall be attached to thereport referred to in subsection (1).

Annual Report

11Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

12.All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law the moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Committee who shall sign their namesto the instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Committee as may be decided bythe Committee.

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Seal of the bodycorporate

12Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution to which the property remains after the satisfactionof all the debts and liabilities of the body corporate to begiven or transferred shall be determined by the members ofthe body corporate with the approval of the Registrar ofVoluntary Social Services Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 immediately before thedissolution at a general meeting by the majority of votes ofthe members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

Bank means a licensed commercial bank under theprovisions of Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

Kathikawatha of Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnarthathero means a set of principals and disciplinespreached by Venerable Sri Maithri Pragnartha thero

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Interpretation

Propertyremaining ondissolution

13Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

to the Buddhist adherence attached to theSri Maithri Pragnartha Bouddha Educational DahamSabhawa in order to lead them for a disciplined lifewith the ultimate goal of attaining the supreme blissof Nirvana, based on Dhamma preachings of LordBuddha;

Local Authority means a Municipal Council, UrbanCouncil or a Pradeshiya Sabha and any authoritycreated or established by or under any law toexercise, perform and discharge powers, duties andfunctions corresponding or similar to the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed anddischarged by any such Council or Sabha;

public corporation means any Corporation, board orother body which was or is established by or underany written law other than the CompaniesAct, No. 07 of 2007, with funds or capital wholly orpartly provided by the Government by way of grant,loan or otherwise; and

written law means any law and subordinate legislationincluding statutes made by a Provincial Council,Orders, Proclamations, Rules, By-Laws andRegulations made or issued by any body or personhaving power or authority under any law to makeor issue the same.

19.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

14Dedigama Sri Maithri Pragnartha BouddhaEducational Daham Sabhawa (Incorporation)Act, No. 35 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.