PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

SAWEERA FOUNDATION (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 29 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 12th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 14, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

[Certified on 12th of June, 2024]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 22/2022

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SAWEERA FOUNDATION

WHEREAS a Foundation called and known as theSaweera Foundation has heretofore been established in SriLanka for the purpose of effectually carrying out its objectsand transacting all matters connected with the said Foundationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Foundation has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established, and has applied tobe incorporated, and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Saweera Foundation(Incorporation) Act, No. 29 of 2024.

2. (1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theSaweera Foundation (hereinafter referred to as theFoundation) or shall hereafter be admitted as the membersof the body corporate hereby constituted shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the SaweeraFoundation (hereinafter referred to as the body corporate),and by that name may sue and be sued with full power andauthority to have, and use a common seal and to alter thesame at its pleasure.

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a voluntarysocial service organization within the meaning, and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Service Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporation ofthe SaweeraFoundation

2Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporateis constituted are hereby declared to be to assist the relevantauthorities with the consent of such authorities

(a)to provide necessary training and support to thecitizens of Sri Lanka with a view to promoting self-employment among them; and

(b)to conduct programmes for the youth to developtheir leadership skills and personality,

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permittedby such written law.

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, sex, politicalopinion, place of birth or any of such other grounds.

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in such manner so as not to create any conflict betweenthe work of the body corporate and any work being carriedout simultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment or of any Provincial Council.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and the rules

made under section 7 the management and administration of

the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by a

Board of Management (hereinafter referred to as the Board)consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specified

by the rules made under section 7.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor ProvincialCouncil

3Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

(2) (a) The Board of Management of the Foundationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules madeunder paragraph (b) of this subsection, function as an InterimBoard of the body corporate until the first Board is appointedor elected in the manner provided for by the rules made undersection 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporate shall have the powers to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporatenot inconsistent with the provisions of this Act or any otherwritten law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board of the body corporateshall be taken by the majority of its members present.

(d) The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointedor elected within one year from the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers, shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisershall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after thelapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from the office of an officebearer, the Board shall having regard to the rules of the bodycorporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

4Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the powers to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepowers

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as determined by theBoard with a view to promoting the objects of thebody corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of the powersof the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or withour securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind for the attainment of the objects of the bodycorporate:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources, in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d) to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accouts inany bank;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities, asmay be determined by the body corporate in termsof the rules made under section 7 of this Act;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objects of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local andforeign institutions having similar objects to thatof the body corporate;

(j)to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purposes of the body corporate; and

(k)generally, to do all such acts and things authorizedby this Act for the achievement of the objects of thebody corporate.

7.(1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, fromtime to time, at any general meeting of the body corporateand by a majority of not less than two-thirds of the memberspresent and voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:

Rules of thebody corporate

6Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of the office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from the office of officebearers and the powers, duties and functions of theoffice bearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers and servantsof the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board or notices and agenda of such meetings,the quorum and the conduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate; and

(g)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsdissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may beamended, altered, added to or rescinded at a like meetingand in like manner, as a rule made under subsection (1) ofthis section.

(3) The rules made under sebsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of suchrules and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

7Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall withinthree months of its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall be deposited inone or more banks approved by the Board to the credit of thebody corporate subject to the provisions of section 6(c).

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyas are required to defray any expenditure incurred by thebody corporate in the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

8Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor and be certified by suchqualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such Institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute of CharteredAccountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Instituteestablished by law, possesses a certificate to practiseas an Accountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute.

11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountscertified by a qualified auditor, to the Secretary of theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of youth affairsand to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServiceOrganizations appointed under the Voluntary Social ServiceOrganizations (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of1980 before the expiration of six months of the yearsucceeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate during thefinancial year shall be attached to the report referred to insubsection (1).

Annual Report

9Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

12. All debts and liabilities of the Foundation existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Foundation on that day shallbe paid to the body corporate for the purpose of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentaty disposition or otherwise, and all suchproperty shall be held by the body corporate for the purposeof this Act and subject to the rules of the body corporatemade under section 7 with powers to sell, mortgage, lease,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not beaffixed to any instrument whatsoever, except in the presenceof two members of the Board who shall sign their names tothe instrument in token of their presence and such signingshall be independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by suchBoard.

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Seal of the bodycorporate

Debts due byand payable tothe Foundation

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

10Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

16. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilitiesany property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orother corporate.

18.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

bank means, a bank licensed under the provisionsof the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988; and

written law shall have the same meaning assignedto such expression in the Constitution.

19.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

Interpretation

11Saweera Foundation (Incorporation)Act, No. 29 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.