PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF

SRI LANKA

EMPLOYEES’ TRUST FUND
(AMENDMENT) »
ACT, No. 47 OF 1988

[Certified on 30th November 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

- Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 02, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 90 cents Postage : 75 cents


Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) |
Act. No. 47 of 1988 .

[Certified on 30th November, miata
iu.D.--O. 39/86

An ACT TO AMEND THE Employees’ Trust Funv Act, No. 46
or 1980

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socielist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Employees’ Trust Fund
(Amendment) Act, No. 47 of 1988.

2. Section 4 of the Employees’ Trust Fund Act, No. 46 of
1980 (hereinafter referred to as the “ principal enactment ”)
is hereby amended by the insertion, immediately atter sub-
section (2) of that section, of the following new subsec-
tion :—

“ (3) he administration, management and control of
the Fund shall be vested in the Board. ”.

3. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-

ed as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (e) of subsection (1) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the
following new paragraph :—

“ (e) two members nominated by the Minister in
consultation with the executive of every
trade union having more than 100,000 mem-

- bers.

For the purpose of this paragraph, “ exectt-
tive” in relation to a trade union has the
same meaning as in the Trade Unions
Ordinance: ”; A Sistas

2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the

substitution therefor of the following new sub-

section :—

“ (2) The Chairman of the Board, wie shall be
the chief executive of the Board, shall be appointed
‘by the Minister. ”.

4, Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-

ed as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section and
the substitution therefor ci the following para-
graph :—

“ (a) shall receive all sums paid under this ‘Act as
contributions, surcharges, loans, grants, in-

terest, dividends, deposits by members or by

2—-A 104499—11,410 (88/09)

Short title

Amendment
of section 4
cf Act No.
46 of 1980.

Amendment
of section

5 of the prin-
cipal enact-
ment.

Amendment
of section

8 of the prin-
cival enact-
ment:


2 Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) -
Act. No. 47 of 1988

employers on their behalf, borrowings from
Banks and other sources and all moneys reali-
sed from investments and sale of movable or
immovable property or any other form of
payment whatsover and shall crédit all such
moneys to the Fund ;” ;

(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (a) of

that section of the following new paragraph :—

“ (ua) may acquire, in any manner whatsoever
and hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwise dispose
of, any movable or immovable property ;”’:

5 The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 8, and shall have effect as section 8A
of the principal enactment :—

“The seal 8a. The seal of the Board—
of the
Board.
(a) shall be in the custody of such persons

as the Board may from time to time
determine ;

(b) may be altered in such manner as
may be determined by the Board ;
and

(c) shall nct be effieed to any document
except wiih the sanction of. the
Board, and in the presence of two
members of the Board who shall sign
the document in token of their pre-

sence, ”’, ee 8 eon

6. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for the words “A self-
employed person desiring”, of the words “A self-employed
person or a migrant worker desiring ”:

7. Section 20 of the principal enactment. is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) by the repeal of subsection (2) of. that section and

the substitution of the following subsection
therefor :—

(2) Where a person becomes a member of the
Fund under the provisions of subsection (1). he
shall in respect of each month pay on or before the
last day of the succeeding month a contribution of

Insertion

of new sec-
tion 8a in the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section

18 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section

20 of the
principal
enactments


Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) 3
Act. No. 47 of 1988 |

ar. amount equal to twenty-five rupees or a multiple
thereof, so however that the amount of the monthly
contribution shall be constant during the calendar
year. ”;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution

for the words “such date as he ceases to be self- ;

employed”, of the words “such date as he ceases
to be self-employed or ceases to be employed
cutside Sri Lanka”;

(8) by the addition at the end of that section of the
; following subsection :—

“ (4) In the event of the non-payment of
.contributions for three consecutive months in a
calendar year or for an aggregate of five months
in a calendar year by a person becoming a member
of the Fund under subsection (1), such member
shall not be entitled to any interest or dividend for

that calendar year on his contributions to the

Fund. ”.

8. Section 22 of the vrincipal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of the proviso to subsection (1) of
that section and the substitution therefor of the following
new proviso — .

‘Provided that for the period commencing on the first
day of January of the calendar year in which any sum is
paid as a benefit under this Act to, or in respect of, a
member of the Fund and ending on the last day of the
month preceding the date of payment of that sum, interest
at the rate of three per centum per annum shall be paid
on the amount to the credit of the individual account of
that member on the date of termination of that period. ”.

9. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—-

“Payment of 23. (1) Subject to the provisions of
benefits to the ‘ ‘ . .
cmployces on section 24, the amount standing to the credit
ermination Sa

of employmen‘, of any employee in his individual account

shall be pavable by the Board to such
employee on the termination of his employ-
ment: . :

Amendment
of section
22 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section

23 of the
principal
enactment,


Amendment
of section
24 of the
principal
enactment.

4 Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment)

Act. No. 47 of 1988

Provided that a member of the Fund shall
rot be entitled to withdraw any sum stand-
ing to his credit in his individual account
more than once in a period of five years
except—.

(a) where a member is over sixty years of
age; or

(b) where a member satisfies the Board by
documentary evidence, that he is
due to leave Sri Lanka with the
intention of not returning to Sri
Lanka or for permanent residence
abroad.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-
section (1) of this section, where an employee to
whom this Act applies takes up pensionable am-
ployment—

(i) in the Public Service ;

(ii) in the Local Government Service constituted

by the Local Government Service Act, No. 16
of 1974;

(iii) in the District Service established under sec-
tion 47 of the Development Councils Act,
No. 35 of 1980; and

(iv) in the service of any local authority other than
as a member of the Local Government Ser-_
vice,

the amount standing to the credit of such employee in his
individual account on the day he takes up such pensionable

appointment, shall be payable by the Board to such em-
ployee, ”, -

10. Section 24 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :— .

(1) by the substitution in subsection (1) of that section
for the words and figures “the proviso to section
23”, of the words and figures “the proviso to sub-
section (1) of section 23”; and .


Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) 5
Act. No. 47 of 1988

(2) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (2)

of that section of the following new subsection :—

“ (3) The Chairman of the Board may, where he
has reason to doubt the genuineness of a medical
certificate submitted by an employee under sub-
section (2) of this section, refer such employee fcr
re-examination by a duly constituted Medical Beard
or a Government Medical Officer and where on such
re-examination the original medical certificate is
found to be false in any material particular, the
Board shall reject such certificate, and the Board
shall be entitled to refuse to accept future medical
certificates issued by such registered medical prac-

titioner, ”.

11. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :— ,

(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution

for the words “ where the defaulting employer resi-
des or in which any property movable or immova-
ble owned by such employer is situated”, of the
words “in which the employee in respect of whom
the default is made is, or was, employed, by such
defaulting employer,” ; and

(2) in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitution

. 12.

for the words “ over the place of work of such em-
ployer. ”, of the words “in the division in which the
place of work of the employee in respect of whom
the default is made, is situate.”.

Section 33 of the principal enactment is hereby

repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

Board or 33. (1) All claims to any payment from
authorized by the Fund shall be determined by the Board
the Board or an officer authorized in that behalf by the

to determine

claims,

Board and the determination of the Board
or such officer shall, subject to any decision
on appeal made against such determination,
be final. . :

(2) Any person dissatisfied with a deter-
mination made by an officer of the Board
under subsection (1) may appeal therefrom
to the Board, within thirty days of the com-

Amendment
of section
28 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section

33 of the
principal
enactment.


6 Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment)
Act. No.. 47 of 1988.

munication of such determination to such
person, The Board may, on any appeal, con-
firm, vary or overrule the determination of
the officer and the decision of the Board in
any such appeal shall be deemed to be a
determination of the Board, for the purposes
of subsection (1) of section 34.”.

13. Section 34 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution of the following subsection therefor :—

“ (3) The petition of appeal shall be filed within thirty
days of the communication of the determination to the
appellant. The date on which a determination is
communicated to a person, for the purposes of subsection
(2) of section 33 and this section, shall be deemed to
be the date on which such determination is posted under
registered cover to such person.”’.

14. Section 37 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following paragraph :—

“(c) a true copy of or extract from any register or record,
required by this Act or under any other law, to

be kept by that employer or any part of such
register or record.”.

15. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 40, and shall have effect as
sections 40a and 40s of the. principal enactment :—

protection of 40a. No member, officer or servant of the
officers and. Board shall be liable either civilly or crimi-
a rvant ot nally, in respect of anything he may have

done or may have omitted to do, when act-
ing in good faith, in pursuance or in suppo-
sed pursuance of his powers or in the per-
formance of his duties under this Act.
Reimbursement
eee e7seS the Board shail be indemnified from the
behalf of Fund for all losses and expenses incurred by
e Board. rae: ‘
him in, or about, the performance of his
duties, other than such losses and expenses
as the Board may deem to have been

occasioned by nis misconduct or wilful de-
fault. ”.

40s. Every member, officer or servant of |

Amendment
of section
34 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
37 of the
principal
enactment,

Insertion

of new sec-
tions 40a and
402 in the
principal
enactment.


Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) - Te

16. Section

Act. No. 47 of 1988

44 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended as follows :— ; .

(1) by the insertion, immediately before the definition
of “earnings”, of the following definition :—

“ duly

constituted Medical Board” means a
Medical Board nominated by the Director-
General of Health Services on an applica-
tion made by the Chairman of the Board
for the purpose of examining persons the
medical certificates SUEnIELEd by whom give e
rise to reasonable doubt ;’;

(2) by the substitution for the definition of “earnings”,
of the following definition :—

« ¢

earnings ” means—

(a) wages, salary or fees;

(b) cost of living allowance, special living
allowance and any other = similar
allowances ;

(c) payment in respect of holidays ;

(d) the cash value of any cooked or un-
cooked food provided by the employer
to employees in prescribed employ-
ments and any such commodity used, in
preparation or composition of any
food as is so provided, such value being
assessed by the employer subject to an
appeal to the Commissioner of Labour
whose decision of such appeal shall be
final ; | .

(e) meal allowance; and

(f) such other forms of remuneration as
may he prescribed ; ’ :

(3) by the substitution for the definition of “ Emp eyes ”
of the following definition :—

. *“employee” means any person who has entered

into or works under a contract with an

employer in any capacity, whether the

contract is expressed or implied, or oral
N

Amendment
of section
44 of the
principal
cnactment.


smployees’ Trust Fund (Amendment)
Act. No. 47 of 1988

or in writing, and whether it is a contract of
service or of apprenticeship or a contract
personally to execute any work of labour,
and includes any person ordinarily employ-
ed under any such contract, whether such
person is, or is not in employment at.any
particular time;’?; and

(4) by the substitution for the definition of “employer ”,
of the following definition :— +

‘ “employer ’” means any person who employs or
on whose behalf any other person employs
any workman and includes a body of
employers (whether such body is a firm,
company, corporation or trade union), and
any person who on behalf of any other

' person employs any workman, and includes
a competent authority of a business undei-
taking vested in the Government under any
written law, the legal heir, successor in
law, executor or adminstrator and liquidator
of a company; and in the case of an
unincorporated body, the president or the
secretary of such body, and in the case of a
partnership, the managing partner or
manager ;’;

(5) by the insertion, immediately after the definition of
“employer”, of. the following definitions :—
‘“jocal authority ” means any Municipal Council,
Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha and
includes any authority created and
established by or under any law to exercise,
perform and discharge powers, duties and
functions corresponding to or similar to
the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed and discharged by any such
Council or Sabha;

“migrant worker” means a person who is a
citizen of Sri Lanka but is employed
outside Sri Lanka, for so long as such
person is so employed.’.

a


Employees’ Trust Fund (Amendment) 9
Act. No. 47 of 1988

17. Wotwithstanding anything in the principal enactment
the amount standing to the credit of the individual account
of an emnployee of—

Transitional
provisions.

(a) the University Grants Commission established by the
Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 or of a Higher
Educational Institute within the meaning of that
Act;

(b) the National Apprenticeship Board established by the
National Apprenticeship Act, No. 49 of 1971,

on the date of commencement of this Act, shall be paid to
such employee by the Board within six months of the date’
of commencement of this Act.


w= ee eee ee

ee se

Annual subscription of Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs, 177 (Local).

Rs. 236 (Foreign), payable to the SuPEFINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Coromego 1, before 15th December each year in respect of the year
following.
