Local Authorities (Special Provisions)

Act, No. 2 of 1957

Date of Assent : January 24, 1957. i og ae 9

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOvERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Posr OrricE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 10 cents Postage: 10 cents


ee

Local Authorities (Special Provisions) 3
Act, No. 2 of 1957

L. D.—O. 23/56.

An Act TO AMEND THE URBAN COUNCILS .ORDINANCE,
No. 61 oF 1939, THE Town CouNCILS ORDINANCE,
No. 3 oF 1946, AND THE VILLAGE COMMUNITIES
ORDINANCE, AND TO VALIDATE CERTAIN ACTS DONE
WITHOUT LEGAL AUTHORITY BY PERSONS LEGALLY
APPOINTED TO ADMINISTER THE AFFAIRS OF TOWNS OR
VILLAGE AREAS WHOSE URBAN or TOWN COUNCILS
on VILLAGE COMMITTEES WERE DISSOLVED.

[Date of Assent: January 24, 1957]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this pre-
sent Parliament assembled, and by the authority of
the same, as follows :—

' 4, This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 2 of 1957.

-2. Section 196 of the Urban Councils .Ordinance,
No. 61 of 1939, is hereby amended, in sub-section (6)

_of that section, by the substitution, for all the words

from ‘*‘ powers vested in the Urban Council ’’ to “ by
such special commissioner or commissioners ’’, of the
following :—

‘* powers vested in the Urban Council or its

_ Chairman by this Ordinance or any other written

” law shall be deemed to be vested in such special

commissioner or commissioners, and all the

. .liabilities and duties of the Urban Council or its

Chairman under this Ordinance or any other

written law shall be deemed to be transferred to

and shall be discharged by such special commis-
sioner or commissioners,’’.

8. Section 197 of the Town Councils Ordinance,
No. 3 of 1946, is hereby amended, in sub-section (6) of
that section, by the substitution, for all the words
from ‘‘ powers vested in the Town Council ’’ to “‘ by
such: special commissioner or commissioners ’’, of the

a following :—

‘* powers vested in the Town Council or its
Chairman by this Ordinance or any other written
law shall be deemed to be vested in such special
commissioner or commissioners, and all the
liabilities and duties of the Town Council or its
Chairman under this Ordinance or any other

J.N. R 8098-8 075 (10/586)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 196

of Ordinance,
No. 61 of 193%

Amendment off
section 197 of

Ordinance,

No. 3 of 1946.


Amendment of
section 62 of
Chapter 198,

Walidation of
certain acts
done without
legal authority
by persons
appointed to
administer the
affairs of towns
or village areas
whose Urban or
Town Councils
or Village
Committees
wvere dissolved.

4 Local. Authorities (Special Provisions)
. :  Aet, No. 2 of 1957

written law shall be deemed to be transferred to
and shall be discharged by such special commis-

sioner or commissioners,’’. ©

_& Section 62:.of the Village Communities
Ordinance, as amended by Ordinance No. 57 of 1946,
is hereby further amended in paragraph (c) of that
sectlon— i gre

(2) by the substitution, for the words ‘‘ directs
the Assistant Commissioner ”’, of the words
“* directs any public officer ’’, and

(5) by the substitution, for all the words from
‘“ powers vested’’ to ‘‘ discharged by
him,’’, of the following :—

*“ powers vested in the Committee or
its Chairman by this Ordinance or any
other written law shall be deemed to be
vested in that public officer, and all the

~ liabilities and duties of the Committee
or its Chairman under this Ordinance

~“*

or any other written law shall be -

deemed to be transferred to and shall be _

: discharged by that public officer,’’.
5. Where any person appointed— a

(a) under section 196 (5) of the Urban Councils
: Ordinance, No.. 61 of 1939, or section 197
(5) of the Town Councils Ordinance, No. 3
of 1946, to. administer the affairs of a town,
or, " , ae a i
(b) under section 61 of the Village Communities
Ordinance to administer the affairs of a
- village area, ig

has done any act in the exercise or discharge of any
power or duty vested or imposed by any written law
in or on the Chairman of the Urban or Town Council
of that town or the Chairman of the Village Com-
mittee of that area, such-act shall not be deemed to
have been or to be invalid by reason only of the fact

4

that such person was not legally empowered to.

exercise or discharge such power or duty.
