PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE (AMENDMENT)

ACT, No. 33 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 05, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 33 of 20181

[Certified on 04th of October, 2018]

L.D.O. 9/2018

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGEACT, NO.13 OF 2006

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Economic Service Charge(Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 2018.

2.Section 2 of the Economic Service Charge Act,No. 13 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)in paragraph (a) of that subsection by thesubstitution for the words for that relevantquarter; and, of the words for that relevantquarter;;

(b)in paragraph (b) of that subsection

(i)by the substitution, in sub-paragraph (ii)thereof, for the words gold or otherprecious metal; or, of the words goldor other precious metal;; and

(ii)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (iii)thereof, and the substitution therefor ofthe following:

(iii) on or after April 1, 2017, but priorto the date of commencement of

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 13 of 2006.

2Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 33 of 2018

this Act in respect of everyconsignment of imports of motorvehicles; or;

(c) by the addition, immediately aftersub-paragraph (iii) thereof, of the followingnew sub-paragraph:

(iv)on or after the date of commencementof this Act in respect of everyconsignment of imports of motorvehicles, which are not liable for exciseduty imposed under the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989; and;and

(d)by the addition, immediately afterparagraph (b) thereof, of the following newparagraph:

(c) on or after the date of commencement ofthis Act, on the amount of excise dutyimposed under the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 in respectof every consignment of imports of motorvehicles, which are liable for exciseduty;.

(2)the proviso to paragraph (b) of subsection (3) of thatsection is hereby amended as follows:

(a)in paragraph (a) by the substitution for thewords turnover of such bank; and, of thewords turnover of such bank;;

(b)in paragraph (b) by the substitution for thewords turnover of such person., of the wordsturnover of such person; and; and

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 33 of 20183

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Amendment ofSchedule IV ofthe principalenactment.

(c)immediately after paragraph (b) by theinsertion of the following new paragraph:

(c) in the case of Central Bank of Sri Lanka,unrealized gain from price revaluationand foreign exchange revalution, shallbe deemed not to form part of theturnover of Central Bank of Sri Lanka..

3. (1) Schedule IV to the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(a)in the item 1 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words partnership of the retail, of the wordspartnership from the wholesale or retail ; and

(b)in the item 2 of that Schedule, by the substitutionfor the words partnership from the retail, of thewords partnership from the wholesale or retail.

(2) The amendments made to the principal enactment bythis section, shall be deemed to have come into operation onApril 1, 2017.

4.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

4Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 33 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.