PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC.
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MOTOR TRAFFIC (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 60 OF 1979
[Certified on 4th October, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part IT of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 12, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMEO

Price: 45 cents ee te Postage: 25 cents


Motor Traffic (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 60 of 1979

[Certified on 4th October, 1979]

ws

L.D—O. 41/79, oe

An ACT TO PROHIBIT THE OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES WITH
LIQUID PETROLEUM GAS; TO REQUIRE OWNERS OF MOTOR
VEHICLES OPERATED WITH KEROSENE OR WITH A MIXTURE OF
KEROSENE AND ANY OTHER PETROLEUM PRODUCT TO RECISTER
SUCH VEHICLES ; TO IMPOSE A TAX ON. SUCH VEHICLES ; AND
TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL
THERETO,

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republie of Sri Lanka as follows :—~

L. This Act may be cited as the Motor Traffic (Special
Provisions) Act, No. 60 of 1979.

2. No person shall possess or use any motor vehicle which
is operated with liquid petroleum gas.

3. No person shall use kerosene or any mixture of
kerosene with any other petroleum product for the purpose
of operating any motor vehicle unless such vehicle is
registered under the Motor Traffic Act as a vehicle which

is operated with kerosene or with a mixture of kerosene'and

any other petroleum product.

4. (1) Every owner of a motor vehicle referred to in
section 3 shall, beforé the expiry of a period of thirty days
from the date of coming into operation of this Act, apply to
the Registrar for registration of such vehicle as a vehicle
operated with kerosene or with a mixture of kerosene and
any other petroleum product.

(2) Where a person fails to comply with the provisions
of subsection (1) he shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine of
one thousand rupees. e

5. Notwithstanding any of the provisions of the Motor
Traffic Act, there shall be payable to the appropriate
licensing authority, for the period commencing on July 01,
1979, and ending on December 31, 1979, in respect of the
motor vehicles specified in Column I of the Schedule hereto,
the tax specified in the corresoonding entry in Column II
of that Schedule.

A 44074—14,00¢ (79/08)

Short title.

Prohibition

‘of the use

of liquid
petroleum
gas.

Kerosene
operated
motor
vehicles to
be registered.

Owner to
apply for
registration.

Imposition
of a tax on’
certain
motor
vehicles,


Date of
payment of
tax and
penalty for

non-payment,

Powers of
police
officer.

Penalty for
contravention
of sections 2
and 3.

Certificate of
examination
to be
admissible
in evidence.

2 Motor Traffic (Special Provisions) . :
Act, No. 60 of 1979 ~~

6. (1) The tax payable under section 5 shall be paid to
the appropriate licensing authority on or before December
31, 1979. ;

(2) Every person who fails to pay the tax on or before
the date specified in subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall on conviction before a
Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding three thousand

: rupees, notwithstanding that such fine is in excess of the

ordinary jurisdiction of such Magistrate.

(3) Where the amount of the tax referred to in sub-
section (1) has not been paid to the appropriate licensing
authority before the expiry of a period of three months
from the date specified in subsection (1), the licensing
authority shall issue a certificate containing particulars of
such tax and the name and last known place of residence
of the person who has failed to pay such tax, to a
Magistrate having jurisdiction in the division in which such
place is situated. The Magistrate shall order the tax to be

recovered as though it were a fine imposed by a sentence

of the Magistrate on such person.

7. Where any police officer has a reasonable susjicion
that a motor vehicle is being used by any person in contra-
vention of the provisions of this Act, it shall be lawful for
such police officer to stop and dctain such vehicle until
the examination of such vehicle is ecmpleted by an
examiner. )

8. Any person who contravenes the provisions of section
2 or section 3 shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
conviction by a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not less than
five thousand rupees, notwithstanding that such fine is in
excess of the ordinary jurisdiction of such Magistrate.

9. Where, in any proceedings under this Act ,any question
arises as to whether kerosene or any mixture of kerosene
with any other petroleum product has been used for the
purpose of operating any moter vehicle, the certificate of arly
examiner to the effect that he has examined the vehicle


Motor Traffic (Special Provisions) Ta 8
Act, No. 60 of 1979

and stating the result of his examination, shall be admissible
in evidence and shall be sufficient prima facie evidence
of any fact or opinion stated therein relating to the matter
in question, and the court shall not permit the examiner
to be called for cross-examination on the certificate unless
contrary evidence is given which appears to the court to
‘be credible, or unless for any reason the court considers
such cross-examination to be necessary in the interests

of justice.

10. Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Act,
where the Minister in charge of the subject of Scientific
Affairs is satisfied that any person assigned by him to
conduct research into the use of liquid petroleum gas, kero-
Sene or any other petroleum product in motor vehicles is
conducting such research, he may, with the concurrence of
the Minister, authorize in writing, subject to such conditions
and restrictions as may be specified therein, such person to
use liquid petroleum gas, kerosene or, any other petroleum
product in motor vehicles in furtherance of such research. ~

11. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“examiner”, “licensing authority”, “lorry”, “motor

car”, “motor vehicle”, “ Registrar” and “trailer ”,
shall have the same meanings, respectively, as in
the Motor Traffic Act : and .

“petroleum product” means petrol, auto-diesel, heavy
diesel, furnace oil-and aviation turbine fuel.

Use of

liquid
petroleum
gas, kerosene
or any other
petroleum
product
permitted in
certain
circumstances

Inter-
pretation,


Motor Traffic (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 60 of 1979

{Section 5] SCHEDULE

CoLtumn I CoLuUMN II 3

Class or category of vehicle Tax
Rs. ec.

Motor vehicles operated with kerosene or with a mixture

of kerosene and any other petroleum product—

(a) where such vehicle is a motor car, the tare of which
does not exceed 20 cwts. (1,016 kilograms) .. 600 0

(6) where such vehicle is a motor car, the tare of which
is 20 cwts. or exceeds 20 cwts. (1,016 kilograms) 1,200 0

(c) where such motor vehicle is a lorry (other than a
trailer), the tare of which does not exceed 100
ewts, (5,080 kilograms) .. .. 1,200 0

(d) where such motor vehicle is a lorry (other than a
trailer) the tare of which is 100 cwts. or exceeds
100 cwts. (5,080 kilograms) .. .- 2,400 0
