PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENTACT, No. 44 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 08th of August, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs.114.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 09, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

[Certified on 08th of August, 2024]

L.D.O. 48/2023

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISIONS TO STRENGTHEN ACCOUNTABILITY ,

OVERSIGHT, MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL OF PUBLIC FUNDS IN THEPUBLIC FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK WITH THE VIEW TO

IMPROVING FISCAL POLICY FOR BETTER MACROECONOMIC

MANAGEMENT; TO CLARIFY INSTITUTIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES RELATED

TO FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT; TO STRENGTHEN BUDGETARY

MANAGEMENT, TO FACILITATE PUBLIC SCRUTINY OF FISCAL POLICY

AND PERFORMANCE; TO REPEAL THE SECTIONS 8 AND 14 OF PART II

OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 38 OF 1971; TO REPEAL THE FISCALMANAGEMENT (RESPONSIBILITY) ACT, NO. 3 OF 2003 AND TO

PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Public FinancialManagement Act, No. 44 of 2024.

(2) All the provisions of this Act other than the provisionsspecified in subsection (3), shall come into operation on thedate on which the Bill becomes an Act of Parliament.

(3) The Minister of Finance shall for the implementationof the provisions specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of thissubsection, appoint such date or dates by Order publishedin the Gazette -

(a)the date or dates from which the provisions ofparagraph (f) of subsection (5) of section 11,subsection (1) of section 17, paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 18, section 36 andparagraph (a) of subsection (1) of section 47 shallcome into operation:

Short title anddate ofoperation

2Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

Provided that, the provisions of paragraph (f)of subsection (5) of section 11 shall come intooperation on a date not later than thirtieth day ofJune 2025; and

(b)the date from which the provisions of subsection(2) of section 34 shall apply in respect of the entitiesspecified in subparagraph (ii) of paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2) of section 3.

2. The objects of this Act shall be

(a)to set out standards, requirements, rules, andprocedures for transparency, accountability,discipline, effectiveness, efficiency, and economyin the management of the public finance includingthe revenues, expenditures, commitments,financing arrangements, equity, assets andliabilities;

(b)to specify the requirements and procedures to beadhered to, in the management of public financeincluding the implementation of fiscalresponsibility objectives and rules, planning,formulation, adoption and implementation ofannual budget along with the processes ofmonitoring, evaluation, internal controls,accounting, and reporting; and

(c)to specify performance and accountabilityrequirements.

Objects of theAct

3Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

PART I

APPLICATION OF THE ACT

3. (1) In addition to the provisions enshrined in Articles148, 149, 150, 151 and 152 of the Constitution, theprovisions of this Act, any regulation, and directive madethereunder, unless specifically excluded from this Act, shallapply to the management of the public finance.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall apply to the entitiesand persons specified below -

(a)the following entities (hereinafter referred to as thepublic entities): -

(i)budgetary entities;

(ii)Statutory Funds and Trusts to which publicfinances are allocated;

(iii)State-Owned Enterprises; and

(iv)Provincial Councils, Provincial Ministries,Provincial Departments, other Institutionsfunctioning under the Provincial Councils,and Local Authorities in terms of the relevantwritten laws;

(b)Officers and employees of public entities to whoma power or duty is conferred, delegated or assignedunder this Act or any regulation made thereunder,including a Chief Accounting Officer, AccountingOfficer or a competent authority referred to inPart VI of this Act.

Application ofthe provisions ofthis Act

4Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(3)Every public entity and persons referred to insubsection (2) in respect of which this Actapplies, shall notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in the provisions of any otherwritten law, comply with the provisions ofthis Act in managing public funds allocatedto or levied by any such public entity underany written law.

PART II

POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE MINISTER OF FINANCE

AND OTHER AUTHORITIES

4. (1) The Minister to whom the subject of Finance hasbeen assigned under Article 44 or 45 of the Constitution (inthis Act referred to as the Minister of Finance) shall inaddition to the powers conferred under Article 150 of theConstitution, be responsible for

(a)developing policies that achieve fiscalsustainability and effective management of fiscalrisks including the identification of the sources offiscal risks and publication of information inrelation to the same;

(b)ensuring compliance with the fiscal responsibilityrequirements under Part III of this Act;

(c)managing the preparation of the annual budget andmonitoring its implementation along with theoverall supervision on collecting revenues,management of the expenditure, public debt andthe Governments cash and liquidity position;

(d)the general oversight of all the financial operationsof the Government along with the extent of thefinancial oversight in relation to the State-OwnedEnterprises, as may be prescribed; and

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Minister ofFinance underthis Act

5Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(e)the implementation of provisions of this Act.

(2) The Minister of Finance shall -

(a)carry out any other powers and functions assignedto the Minister of Finance by this Act or any otherwritten law; and

(b)be accountable to Parliament for the effectiveapplication of the provisions of this Act andregulations made under this Act.

(3) The Minister of Finance may, by Order published inthe Gazette, delegate to the Secretary to the Treasury anypower conferred on the Minister of Finance by this Act exceptunder subsection (1) of section 28, subsection (3) of section32, subsection (4) of section 39, section 56 and section 67,subject to the conditions, reservations and restrictions, asmay be specified in that Order.

5. (1) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister ofFinance appointed by the President in terms of paragraph(1) of Article 52 of the Constitution, shall be the head of theGeneral Treasury (in this Act referred to as the Secretary tothe Treasury).

(2) In addition to the powers, duties, functions andresponsibilities assigned by any other written law, theSecretary to the Treasury, for the purpose of achieving theobjects of this Act, shall

(a)assist the Minister of Finance to perform hisfunctions under this Act;

(b)assist the Minister of Finance for preparation andexecution of the annual budget;

Powers, duties,and functions ofthe Secretary tothe Treasury

6Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(c)manage the Treasury cash flow and oversee themanagement of the official bank accountsmaintained under the Treasury single account;

(d)ensure compliance with statutory requirements onthe preparation of annual financial statements andreports of the Government, their submission to theAuditor-General, and dissemination of relatedinformation to the general public;

(e)monitor the implementation and evaluate the resultsof public investment projects and public-privatepartnership projects;

(f)subject to the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers,formulate policies and strategies for the effectivemanagement and overall supervision of State-Owned Enterprises;

(g)assist the Minister of Finance to manage the publicsector cadre and remuneration in compliance withthe national remuneration policy;

(h)formulate, develop, review, and update directivesfor the financial management, management of assetsand internal audit management of public entities;

(i)enter into agreement with foreign Governments,international organizations or other donor agencieson behalf of the Government upon the approval ofthe Cabinet of Ministers; and

(j)carry out any other powers and functions assignedto the Secretary to the Treasury under this Act andby any other written law, which are not inconsistentwith the provisions of this Act.

7Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

6. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may in writing andsubject to such conditions as may be specified therein,delegate to the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury or any officernot below the rank of a Director-General in the GeneralTreasury, the powers, duties and functions conferred to theSecretary to the Treasury under section 5 of this Act.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury may, notwithstandingany delegation made under subsection (1), by himself,exercise, perform or discharge any power, duty or functionso delegated and may at any time revoke any suchdelegation.

(3) Notwithstanding the Secretary to the Treasury havingceased to hold office, any delegation made undersubsection (1) shall continue in force.

7. The powers, duties, and functions of the ChiefAccounting Officer, Accounting Officer and a RevenueAccounting Officer under this Act shall be as prescribed.

8. (1) The Minister of Finance shall appoint a RevenueManagement Committee consisting of members as specifiedin subsection (2) which shall be responsible for -

(a)developing and formulating revenue strategiesconsistent with the fiscal strategy statementspecified in section 11; and

(b)providing strategic advice to public entities thatgenerate revenue.

(2) The Revenue Management Committee shall consistof

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions ofthe Secretary tothe Treasury

Powers, duties,and functions ofthe ChiefAccountingOfficer, &c.

RevenueManagementCommittee

8Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)the following ex-officio members namely

(i)the Secretary to the Treasury who shall be theChairperson;

(ii)a Deputy Secretary to the Treasury in chargeof the subject of fiscal policy;

(iii)the Commissioner-General of InlandRevenue;

(iv)the Director-General of Customs;

(v)the Commissioner-General of Excise;

(vi)the Director General of the Department incharge of the subject of Treasury Operations;

(vii)the Director-General of the Department incharge of the subject of Fiscal Policy; and

(b)two other members appointed by the Minister ofFinance from among persons who have achievedeminence in the field of revenue management.

(3) The Secretary to the Revenue Management Committeeshall be an officer of the Department responsible for thesubject of fiscal policy, nominated by the Secretary to theTreasury.

(4) An appointed member of the Revenue ManagementCommittee may resign from such Committee by a letteraddressed to the Minister of Finance.

(5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), anappointed member of the Revenue Management Committeeshall serve on such Committee for a period of three yearsand shall be eligible for reappointment.

9Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(6) The functions of the Revenue ManagementCommittee, and the manner of the classification, collection,and deposit of the revenue, refund from revenue andreporting requirements shall be as prescribed.

(7) The functions of the Revenue Management Committeeshall be carried out, subject to any applicable written law, insuch manner so as not to create any conflict between theRevenue Management Committee and functions beingcarried out by any public entity specified in paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2) of section 3.

PART III

FISCAL RESPONSIBILITY

9. The Government shall manage its fiscal policy in anaccountable, efficient, fair, transparent, and sustainablemanner in line with the provisions of the Constitution, toensure macroeconomic stability and economic growth ofthe country and intergenerational equity.

10. The objectives underlying responsible fiscalmanagement which need to be adhered to by the Governmentshall be as follows: -

(a)ensure that public debt is reduced to, andmaintained at, a sustainable level;

(b)create and maintain fiscal buffers that secure againstfuture shocks;

(c)manage and mitigate fiscal risks in a prudentmanner;

Fiscalresponsibility ofthe Government

Objectivesunderlyingresponsible fiscalmanagement

10Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(d)ensure discipline, transparency, and accountabilityin fiscal management;

(e)lengthen the time horizon of fiscal planning byestablishing requirements for the development andpublication of an annual fiscal strategy statementand rolling five-years medium-term fiscalframework; and

(f)facilitate effective scrutiny of the fiscalperformance of the Government.

11. (1) The fiscal strategy of the Government shall complywith the fiscal responsibility framework specified in thisPart to ensure achievement of the objectives specified insection 10 and shall be set out in the fiscal strategy statement.

(2) The fiscal strategy statement shall be prepared by theMinister of Finance annually and be submitted it to theCabinet of Ministers for approval.

(3) Upon obtaining approval of the Cabinet of Ministersunder subsection (2), the fiscal strategy statement shall beannounced by the Minister of Finance at Parliament on orbefore thirtieth day of June of each year. Annual budget forthe next year shall be prepared based on such fiscal strategystatement. The fiscal strategy statement shall be publishedon the official website of the Ministry of the Minister ofFinance upon the announcement made by the Minister ofFinance.

(4) The purpose of the fiscal strategy statement shall beto

(a)provide the Parliament and the public with a formalstatement of the Governments fiscal strategybefore the annual budget is prepared;

Fiscal strategystatement

11Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)provide strategic guidance for the upcoming annualbudget;

(c)establish the basis upon which fiscal performanceshall be evaluated objectively;

(d)strengthen Parliamentary oversight of performanceagainst the Governments fiscal strategy; and

(e)enhance fiscal transparency and accountability.

(5) The fiscal strategy statement shall, at a minimum

(a)specify the Governments fiscal targets and thepolicies being implemented to ensure achievementof such targets;

(b)include proposed timeframe for the reduction ofpublic debt to a sustainable level;

(c)explain how the Governments fiscal targets andpolicies are consistent with the objectives ofresponsible fiscal management;

(d)include the medium-term fiscal framework specifiedin section 12;

(e)provide an assessment of performance against thefiscal strategy, including

(i)an assessment of compliance with the fiscaltargets for the preceding financial year,including an explanation of any non-compliance with such targets;

12Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(ii)an assessment of expected compliance withthe fiscal targets for the current financial year;

(iii)an assessment of expected compliance withthe fiscal targets for the next financial yearand the four succeeding years; and

(iv)an assessment of risks of non-compliance withthe fiscal targets for the current financial yearand the next financial year;

(f)specify the main sources of fiscal risks against tothe attainment of the objectives specified in section10 and the estimate of the fiscal impact of suchfiscal risks; and

(g)disclose the macroeconomic impact of fiscaldecisions taken over the past three years.

12. (1) The Minister of Finance shall ensure preparationof a medium-term fiscal framework for the upcoming financialyear and for the four succeeding financial years which shallbe approved and published within the fiscal strategystatement referred to in section 11.

(2) The medium-term fiscal framework shall include, at aminimum -

(a)a primary balance target consistent with the debtreduction objectives of the Government expressedas a percentage of the forecast nominal grossdomestic product;

(b)a primary expenditure ceiling of the Governmentexpressed in Sri Lankan rupees calculated undersection 15; and

Medium-termfiscal framework

13Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(c)the fiscal aggregate projections and supplementarytargets of the Government for the rolling five-yearshorizon, together with the economic and otherassumptions used to prepare these projections.

(3) For the purpose of achieving a sustainable level ofpublic debt, the medium-term fiscal framework shalldetermine an annual primary balance target as specified insection 14, and a primary expenditure ceiling within thelimit as specified in section 15.

(4) The annual budget shall be in accordance with theprimary balance target and the primary expenditure ceilingset out in the medium-term fiscal framework as specified insubsection (2).

13. (1) The debt reduction objective referred to inparagraph (a) of section 10 requires the Government to ensurethat public debt shall be reduced to and maintained at asustainable level adhering to the limits and time framespecified in the fiscal strategy statement pursuant to theparagraph (b) of subsection (5) of section 11.

(2) The Minister of Finance shall ensure the preparationand publication of a debt sustainability analysis on anannual basis that takes account of the fiscal performanceand any revisions that may be required to the fiscal strategystatement or the medium-term fiscal framework as specifiedunder sections 11 and 12, respectively.

14. (1) The primary balance target set by the Minister ofFinance in the medium-term fiscal framework for theupcoming financial year and the four succeeding financialyears, consistent with the debt reduction objective, shallbe

Debt reductionobjective

Primary balancetarget

14Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)served as a medium-term fiscal anchor to addressall aspects of fiscal planning and policydevelopment; and

(b)updated annually to reflect observed fiscaloutcomes and to ensure ongoing consistency withthe debt reduction objective in section 10.

(2) In case of non-compliance or anticipated non-compliance with the primary balance target included in themedium-term fiscal framework, the Minister of Finance shallsubmit to Parliament and publish within six weeks from thedate of such non-compliance or anticipation as the case maybe, the following:-

(a)a report containing an assessment explaining thereasons for non-compliance with the primarybalance target;

(b)an updated medium-term fiscal framework; and

(c)a fiscal plan to return to compliance with theprimary balance target in the current and the nextfinancial year in case of non-compliance with theprimary balance target.

15. (1) The primary expenditure of the Government shallnot exceed thirteen per centum of the estimated nominalgross domestic product for the relevant financial year.

(2) The primary expenditure ceiling specified in themedium-term fiscal framework for the upcoming financialyear and for the four succeeding financial years expressed asa nominal amount calculated with reference to forecastnominal gross domestic product calculated by the Ministry

Primaryexpenditure ofthe Government

15Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

of the Minister of Finance as the case may be, shall also beconsistent with the primary balance target specified insection 14.

(3) The primary expenditure ceiling calculated as persubsection (2)

(a)for the upcoming financial year shall be bindingfor the annual budget for the upcoming financialyear at the time of its submission, approval, andexecution;

(b)for the four succeeding financial years shall beupdated on an annual basis to reflect the latestestimates for nominal gross domestic product forthe relevant financial years and to ensure ongoingconsistency with the primary balance targetspecified in section 14.

(4)The primary expenditure ceiling may be initiallyreviewed no sooner after five years from the date of cominginto operation of this Act, and be reviewed every five yearsthereafter, and shall be updated to be consistent with theprimary balance target and the debt reduction objective.

16. (1) Any deviation from the primary expenditureceiling specified in the medium-term fiscal framework forany financial year, may be made by the Government onlyunder the circumstances specified in subsection (2) and shallbe subject to the procedures specified in subsection (3).

(2) The Government may exceed the primary expenditureceiling specified in the medium-term fiscal framework onlyin the unanticipated events or natural disaster posingsignificant threats to national security, national economic

Deviation fromthe primaryexpenditureceiling

16Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

security or the public health and safety of the country whichnecessitate additional, temporary and targeted publicexpenditure beyond any contingencies included in theannual budget.

(3) Where any situation specified in subsection (2) arisesor is likely to arise that requires expenditure in excess of theprimary expenditure ceiling specified in the medium-termfiscal framework, the Minister of Finance shall request byway of resolution, the approval of Parliament for thedeviation from the primary expenditure ceiling andsupplementary appropriations in excess of the primaryexpenditure ceiling specified in the medium-term fiscalframework.

(4) The request referred to in subsection (3) shall beaccompanied by, at a minimum

(a)a statement explaining the circumstances inconsequence of which the need for such deviationarose, including supporting data, and how thosecircumstances justify the deviation;

(b)a recovery plan that shall contain information andtargeted actions to be taken to manage thecircumstances specified in subsection (2) includingadditional spending, and actions to be taken by theMinister of Finance to return to compliance withthe primary expenditure ceiling, and the timeframefor such return to compliance;

(c)a supplementary estimate proposal in line withsection 26; and

(d)an updated medium-term fiscal framework.

17Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(5) The documents specified in subsection (4) shall bepublished on the official website of the Ministry of theMinister of Finance.

17. (1) The aggregate stock of outstanding Governmentguarantees at the end of each financial year shall not exceed7.5 per centum of the average gross domestic product(hereinafter referred to as the guarantee limit) of the relevantfinancial year and preceding two financial years.

(2) The guarantee limit specified in subsection (1) shallbe reviewed every five years after the date of coming intooperation of this Act and be updated to ensure consistencywith the debt reduction objective specified in the fiscalstrategy statement.

(3) In case of a breach of the guarantee limit specified insubsection (1), the Minister of Finance shall submit toParliament and publish on the official website of the Ministryof the Minister of Finance a report specifying, at a minimum-

(a)the reason for such breach; and

(b)actions to ensure compliance with the guaranteelimit in the future.

PART IV

PREPARATION AND APPROVAL OF ANNUAL BUDGET

18. (1) The annual budget shall include the estimates ofexpenditure of the public entities which are allocated to aHead of Expenditure number.

(2) The annual budget shall

Guarantee limit

Scope of theannual budget

18Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)be presented in the form of the appropriations byHead of Expenditure; and

(b)be classified in line with the internationallyaccepted practices.

(3) The Appropriation Act shall envisage expenditurefrom the Consolidated Fund subject to Articles 150, 151and 152 of the Constitution.

19. (1) The Appropriation Bill and the draft annualbudget estimates presented to Parliament shall be consistentwith the fiscal strategy statement and the medium-term fiscalframework developed in accordance with the provisions ofthis Act.

(2) The draft annual budget estimates shall be presentedin the manner as may be prescribed.

20. (1) The annual budget document shall consist of

(a)the estimates of revenue and expenditure (in thisAct referred to as the annual budget estimates) inthe forms as may be prescribed; and

(b)the Appropriation Bill that includes inter-alia, theestimates of expenditure, and borrowing ceilings.

(2) The annual budget document shall be accompaniedby

(a)budget speech summarizing the contents of theannual budget and the overall thrust of theGovernments fiscal policy;

(b)a public-friendly version of the annual budget

Compliance withfiscalresponsibilityrequirements

Annual budgetdocument anditsaccompanyingdocuments

19Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

containing easy-to-understand summary of the mainfeatures of the annual budget;

(c)the fiscal strategy statement and the budget,economic and fiscal position report;

(d)medium-term debt management strategy andannual borrowing plan;

(e)the list of ongoing and newly approved publicinvestment projects, including public-privatepartnership projects in accordance with subsection(1) of section 45;

(f)the list of outstanding loans and outstandingguarantees provided by the Government and othercontingent liabilities of the Government includingthose related to public-private partnership projects;

(g)a summary of public service employment acrossbudgetary entities;

(h)a statement of tax expenditures including the totalcost of existing tax expenditures and the disclosureof new tax expenditures; and

(i)any other documents or information as requiredunder this Act or any other written law or as maydeemed appropriate by the Minister of Finance.

21. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in anyother written law, every budgetary entity shall prepare andsubmit their budget estimates in line with the budget callcircular, not later than thirty first day of July of the financialyear preceding the year for which the annual budget isprepared.

Annual budgetprocess

20Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The budget call circular shall -

(a)include expenditure ceilings which are binding forthe financial year, consistent with the primaryexpenditure ceiling specified in the medium-termfiscal framework as required under section 12;

(b)include detailed policy guidance and list the mainactions to be complied with and information to beprovided by public entities within the annualbudget process and set out the timeframe for suchactions in line with this section;

(c)include the public investment programme approvedby the Minister of Finance; and

(d)include other instructions and information as maybe deemed necessary by the Secretary to theTreasury.

(3) The Minister of Finance shall obtain the approval ofthe Cabinet of Ministers for the annual budget documentprior to submitting it to the Parliament.

(4) The Minister of Finance shall submit theAppropriation Bill for the forthcoming financial year to theParliament not later than fifteenth day of October of the yearpreceding the year for which the annual budget is prepared.

(5) The Minister of Finance shall submit the annualbudget document under paragraphs (a) and (b) of subsection(1) of section 20 accompanied with the documents specifiedunder subsection (2) of section 20 to the Parliament not laterthan fifteenth day of November of the year of which theannual budget is prepared and shall publish the draft annualbudget document and documents accompanying thereto onthe same day, in the official website of the Ministry of theMinister of Finance.

21Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(6) The Secretary to the Treasury shall announce thebudget process pertaining to the presentation and approvalof Appropriation Bill for the succeeding year, with specificdates, in consultation with the Secretary General ofParliament and with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

22. (1) The Minister of Finance shall be responsible forensuring the -

(a)implementation of the annual budget process;

(b)preparation of the Appropriation Bill and the annualbudget estimates; and

(c)preparation of the annual budget document inaccordance with the medium-term fiscal frameworkand budgetary framework.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall be responsible forissuing the budget call circular not later than thirtieth day ofJune of the financial year preceding the year for which theannual budget is prepared.

23. (1) In the event the Appropriation Bill for thesucceeding year is not approved by Parliament by thirtyfirst day of December of the current year, the Minister ofFinance shall submit a vote on account to Parliament, underwhich the Parliament shall allocate funds for ongoingprojects and continuously provide specified public serviceswhich need to be maintained.

(2) The period for which expenditure is allocated underthe vote on account shall not exceed four months and shallbe followed by the adoption of the Appropriation Actintegrating the expenditure of the vote on account.

Responsibilitiesof the Ministerof Finance andthe Secretary tothe Treasury inthe annualbudget process

Vote onAccount

22Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

PART V

ADJUSTMENTS TO THE ANNUAL BUDGET DURING THE YEAR

24. (1) Transfer of an allocation within a Head ofExpenditure in annual Appropriation Act shall be incompliance with the provisions in such Appropriation Act,subject to the provisions of subsections (2), (3) and (4) ofthis section (hereinafter referred to as the VirementProcedure).

(2) Transfer of unexpended budget allocation shall notbe allowed

(a)from one Head of Expenditure to another Head ofExpenditure; or

(b)from capital expenditure to recurrent expenditure.

(3) Restrictions on the use of virement procedure inaddition to those specified in subsection (2) shall as may beprescribed.

(4) The transfer of allocation using the virementprocedure, if any, effected by all budgetary entities shall bereported to the Parliament within six months from the dateof the said transfer by the Minister of Finance. Procedures ofsuch reporting shall as may be prescribed.

25. (1) The Appropriation Act may include anappropriation for contingencies which shall be called andknown as the annual budget reserve for the financial year.

(2) The amount appropriated for the annual budget reserveshall not exceed two per centum of the proposed estimate ofprimary expenditure.

Virementprocedure

Annual budgetreserve

23Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(3) The funds in the annual budget reserve may beallocated to cover urgent, unforeseen and unavoidablerequirements as defined in written laws and the expenditurewhere existing allocations are insufficient.

(4) Any allocation from the annual budget reserve shallbe approved in accordance with the provisions of theAppropriation Act and shall be reported to Parliament withintwo months.

26. (1) A supplementary estimate proposal shall besubmitted to the Parliament for approval in the manner asmay be prescribed upon the occurrence of the followingconditions: -

(a)unforeseen and unavoidable circumstances such asmajor economic downturn, severe external shocks,natural disaster, emergence of major contingentliabilities or any such other eventuality in theopinion of the Cabinet of Ministers;

(b)it becomes necessary for a budgetary entity to incuradditional expenditure during a year that is notcovered by the Head of Expenditure in theAppropriation Act approved by the Parliament; and

(c)it is not possible for such expenditure to be providedthrough

(i)a virement procedure as provided for insection 24;

(ii)the Contingencies Fund established underArticle 151 of the Constitution; or

(iii)an allocation from the annual budget reserveas provided for in section 25.

SupplementaryEstimates

24Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The supplementary estimate proposal undersubsection (1) shall include -

(a)an overview of the recent macroeconomic and fiscaldevelopments;

(b)an updated forecasts of revenues and expendituresof the annual budget;

(c)an explanation of the changes to appropriations forindividual Heads of Expenditure; and

(d)the source of additional financing and any otherinformation as may be prescribed.

(3) The request for additional expenditure undersubsection (1) shall be approved by the Cabinet of Ministersprior to submitting it to Parliament.

27. (1) Where at the close of Government accounts forany financial year, it is found that the budget allocationshave been expended -

(a)in excess of the amount appropriated by theAppropriation Act for the relevant year, or from theContingencies Fund or supplementary estimate; or

(b)for a purpose for which the budget allocation hasnot been made,

such excessive amount shall be treated as unauthorizedexcess expenditure.

(2) In the events specified in subsection (1), the relevantbudgetary entity shall place before the Parliament a

ExcessExpenditure

25Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

statement on excess expenditure attached to the annualfinancial statement which shall include the information asmay be prescribed not later than ninety days after the closureof the financial year.

(3) An unauthorized excess expenditure shall be a groundfor a disciplinary action against the responsible officers.

PART VI

BUDGET EXECUTION

28. (1) Any financial commitment or liability, includingcontingent liability, shall not be incurred by a budgetaryentity without a warrant authorizing expenditure by theMinister of Finance issued under Article 150 of theConstitution.

(2) The Chief Accounting Officer or the AccountingOfficer of a public entity shall be responsible for ensuringthat the expenditure shall be in conformity with the authoritycontained in the warrant. Any expenditure not in conformitywith the authority shall be disallowed by the Secretary tothe Treasury, and may be surcharged on the responsibleofficers.

(3) The warrants authorizing expenditure shall expire atthe end of the financial year to which they relate.

29. (1) Any expenditure of public funds shall be madesubject to the following steps: -

(a)prior authorization from the competent authority;

(b)prior approval from the competent authority;

Warrants

Expenditurecontrol system

26Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(c)commitment by the competent authority;

(d)certification by the competent authority; and

(e)payment by the relevant public entity.

(2) For the purpose of this section, competent authoritymeans any officer who has been delegated functions of theauthorization, approval, commitment, certification orpayment by the Accounting Officer of the relevant publicentity.

(3) The Accounting Officers may delegate functions eithergenerally or with regard to individual transactions, and shallbe responsible for ensuring the competence to whom theauthority is delegated and the adequacy of internal checksin the system of delegation.

(4) Approvals of commitments shall be subject to theavailability of sufficient unencumbered appropriation in theannual budget line against which the commitments are beingmade.

(5) The obligation to pay shall arise when works, goodsor services received by the Competent Authority from thirdparties.

(6) Any contract or other arrangement, which may incuran expenditure commitment, entered or made by a budgetaryentity shall be entered into the financial managementinformation system, in the manner as shall be prescribed.

(7) The Minister of Finance shall establish a clearancestrategy to continuously reduce arrears of expenditurecommitments which exist on the date of the coming intooperation of this Act, and enhance mechanisms to preventthe accumulation of arrears.

27Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

30. (1) The authority to spend moneys appropriated underthe annual budget shall expire and cease to have effect atthe end of the financial year to which such annual budgetrelates.

(2) In case of a claim not settled prior to thirty first day ofDecember of a financial year in which the claim arose, suchclaim shall be settled against corresponding code ofexpenditure in the following financial year. Procedure forsuch settlement shall be as prescribed.

31. (1) The Minister of Finance shall ensure that the multi-year expenditure commitments proposed in the annualbudget of any relevant year are consistent with the medium-term fiscal framework.

(2) The Chief Accounting Officer of the respectivebudgetary entity shall obtain approval from the Cabinet ofMinisters prior to entering into multi-year expenditurecommitments.

(3) For the purpose of this section, multi-yearexpenditure commitments means an expenditurecommitment the settlement of which requires appropriationfrom the Appropriation Acts of the financial years succeedingthe relevant financial year and shall include publicinvestment projects, related recurrent costs, obligations ofthe Government under publicprivate partnership projectsand other investments and financing arrangements.

32. (1) Every public entity shall procure the goods,services, works, consultancy services and informationsystems in compliance with the procurement proceduresspecified in written laws and guidelines issued from time totime by the National Procurement Commission.

Expiry of annualbudget andlapsed payment

Multi-yearexpenditurecommitments

Procurement

28Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) (a) Every public entity specified in subparagraph (i)

of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall be required

to prepare and provide to the Secretary to the Treasury its

annual procurement plans.

(b) Every public entity specified in subparagraphs (ii)

and (iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall

be required to prepare and provide their annual procurement

plans to the respective Chief Accounting Officer.

(3) The National Procurement Commission may, if it

deems necessary, formulate and publish in the Gazette

specific guidelines for State Owned Enterprises and

Provincial Councils.

33. (1) Every Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting

Officer or governing body of a public entity in respect of

which an internal auditor has been appointed shall ensure

that the internal auditor exercises functions independently

and is not assigned with a function that may amount to

conflict of interest.

(2) The internal auditor shall follow the directives issued

under subsection (3) and shall submit a report setting out

such findings on the respective Head of Expenditure to the

Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting Officer or governing

body of the relevant public entity and copies of such report

shall be forwarded to the Department responsible for the

subject of Audit Management in terms of the provisions of

sections 40 and 41 of the National Audit Act, No. 19 of

2018.

Internal audit

29Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall issue directiveswith regards to strengthening of internal controls, internalaudits and to audit management committees of public entities.

PART VII

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

34. (1) (a) There shall be established a Committee onCash Flow Management chaired by the Secretary to theTreasury and consisting of Deputy Secretaries, and Heads ofthe Departments in the Treasury and Heads of followingrevenue Departments: -

(i)Director-General of Customs;

(ii)Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue;and

(iii)Commissioner-General of Excise.

(b)The powers, duties and functions, responsibilitiesand operation of the Committee specified in paragraph (a)shall be as prescribed.

(2) There shall be a treasury single account to maintainthe revenue and expenditure of the Consolidated Fund,which shall be an integrated system of bank accounts, intowhich all Government cash including moneys received bythe public entities referred to in subparagraphs (i) and (ii) ofparagraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shall be depositedand from which expenditure of the Government and suchpublic entities shall be made to enable public funds to bemanaged in a consolidated manner.

Treasury cashflowmanagement andtreasury singleaccount system

30Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

35. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury or an officerauthorized in that behalf by the Secretary to the Treasuryshall authorize the opening, maintenance and closure ofofficial bank accounts for the purpose of managing theGovernments cash and liquidity requirements.

(2) The governing body of a public entity which is notsubject to the treasury single account, shall have power toopen, maintain, and close bank accounts for the purpose ofallocating public finance of such public entity in terms ofthe relevant written law under which such public entity isestablished.

(3) The details on the opening and closing of officialbank accounts referred to in subsection (1), shall be asprescribed.

36. (1) There shall be developed an effective computerizedsystems for carrying out the functions of the General Treasuryand the functions specified in this Act.

(2) The performance, security, safety and accuracy of thepublic entitys computerized financial management andother information systems shall be ensured by periodic reviewand evaluation as prescribed.

37. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall, subject to theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers have the authority tosign all agreements with foreign governments, orinternational organizations in respect of foreign grants orreceive any grant from other foreign donors or domesticdonors on behalf of the Government, except where a publicentity is authorized by the Cabinet of Ministers in writing tosign such agreements and receive such grants.

Opening andclosing of bankaccounts for theallocation ofpublic finance

Use ofinformation andcommunicationtechnology

Foreign grantsand Domesticgrants made tothe Government

31Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) Funds received as grants to the Government from a

foreign government, international organization, or other

foreign donor (in this section referred to as the foreign

grants) or domestic donor shall be

(a)credited to the Consolidated Fund; and

(b)incorporated in the draft annual budget of the public

entity responsible for executing the grant.

(3) Any public entity which receives grant in any kind

under this section shall determine and record the monetary

value of such grant in accordance with the relevant written

law.

(4) The requirements and procedures for the receipt of

foreign grants or domestic grants, as the case may be, shall

be as prescribed.

38. (1) The management of the non-financial assets of the

public entities referred to in subparagraphs (i), (ii) and (iii)

of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 including

their identification, classification, valuation, utilization, and

disposal shall be governed subject to any relevant written

law.

(2) The proceeds of the sale of any movable or immovable

property or any exclusive privilege belonging to a budgetary

entity shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund and shall

be dealt with in the manner as may be prescribed.

Assetmanagement

32Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

PART VIII

STATUTORY FUNDS

39. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall supervise,examine, and monitor all statutory funds and may issuedirectives on statutory funds in respect of which any otherwritten law does not provide for such matters.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall submit a report onthe performance of statutory funds to the Cabinet ofMinisters, at least once in every year.

(3) Every statutory fund shall

(a)comply with any directive issued by the Secretaryto the Treasury in exercising the powers, duties,and functions under this Act and any other writtenlaw;

(b) (i) submit draft annual budget estimates endorsedby the Chief Accounting Officer of the statutoryfund and the relevant Minister to the Secretaryto the Treasury for approval;

(ii)prepare their budget proposals in line with theprovisions of the budget call circular issued bythe Secretary to the Treasury if any statutoryfund is funded by annual budget;

(c)submit regular reports on its performance to theSecretary to the Treasury as may be prescribed; and

(d)submit other information as may be required inwriting by the Secretary to the Treasury.

Powers of theSecretary to theTreasury onstatutory funds

33Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(4) Any non statutory fund shall cease its operations fromthe date of coming into operation of this Act and shall bedissolved within one year from such date and the moneyslying to the credit of such fund shall be remitted to theConsolidated Fund after discharging the liabilities of suchfund:

Provided however, where the Minister of Finance inconsultation with the Secretary to the Treasury, determinesthat such a non-statutory fund shall continue in operation,such fund shall be converted to a statutory fund as may beprescribed.

PART IX

PUBLIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT

40. (1) The selection and implementation of a publicinvestment project, including a public private partnershipproject shall be in compliance with

(a)the objects specified in section 2;

(b)the fiscal responsibility framework provided for inPart III; and

(c)Sri Lankas national development policyframework, national policies, sectoral plans, andpublic investment programme.

(2) The Minister of Finance shall establish a PublicInvestment Committee consisting of

(a)the Heads of the Departments in the GeneralTreasury responsible for the following subjectareas:-

Generalprinciples ofpublicinvestmentmanagement andPublicInvestmentCommittee

34Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(i)national planning;

(ii)public finance;

(iii)fiscal policy;

(iv)national budget;

(v)public debt management;

(vi)external resources;

(vii)treasury operations;

(viii)public enterprises;

(ix)management services;

(x)project management and monitoring; and

(b)the authority in charge of the subject of public-private partnerships.

(3) The Chairperson of the Public Investment Committeeshall be the Secretary to the Treasury.

(4) The Secretary to the Public Investment Committeeshall be an officer of the Department responsible for thesubject of national planning, nominated by the Secretary tothe Treasury.

(5) The Public Investment Committee shall be responsiblefor

(a)the selection of public investment projectsincluding public-private partnership projectsspecified in section 42, based on the criteria thatshall be published by the Ministry of the Ministerof Finance;

35Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)making recommendations to the Minister ofFinance on the mode of financing for such projects,including financing from the annual budget; and

(c)supervising the implementation of the provisionsof this Act and the regulations made thereunderpertaining to public investment projects, includingpublic private partnership projects, and makingrecommendations as are deemed necessary to theMinister of Finance.

41. (1) There shall be a public investment programmeconsisting of all ongoing and prospective public investmentprojects, including public-private partnership projectsplanned based on the national development policyframework. The public investment programme shall beprepared by the Department responsible for the subject ofnational planning in the manner as may be prescribed andapproved by the Minister of Finance and be published inthe official website of the Ministry of the Minister of Financeand be updated annually.

(2) Each budgetary entity which intends to implement anew public investment project, including a public privatepartnership project by fifteenth day of May in any year shallsubmit the project proposal including prescribed details tothe Department responsible for the subject of nationalplanning.

(3) The Department responsible for the subject of nationalplanning shall

(a)review project proposals including prefeasibilityand feasibility study reports submitted bybudgetary entities in accordance with the appraisalmethodologies as may be prescribed;

Publicinvestmentprogramme

36Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)accept or reject the project proposals to be includedin public investment programme based on itsappraisal of project proposals and subject to itsconsistency with national development plan of SriLanka and the fiscal strategy statement includingthe medium-term fiscal framework.

42. (1) Each budgetary entity may propose to the Ministerof Finance public investment project, including a public-private partnership project for inclusion in the annual budget,if such proposed projects are included in the publicinvestment programme referred to in section 41.

(2) Any proposal for a public investment project,including a public-private partnership project referred to insubsection (1), shall be included in the budget proposal ofthe budgetary entity, in a form specified in the budget callcirculars issued by the Secretary to the Treasury.

(3) Subject to the ceilings set out in the budget callcirculars, the Public Investment Committee shall

(a)review the proposed public investment projects,including public-private partnership projectsaccording to the project selection criteria as maybe prescribed and prepare a list of prioritizedprojects for the approval of the Minister of Financeand for the inclusion in the draft annual budget forapproval by the Cabinet of Ministers; and

(b)recommend appropriate funding sources forprojects, taking into account the available fiscalspace and other relevant matters which needconsideration.

Project selectionand budgeting

37Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(4) The Minister of Finance shall ensure that anyappropriation through annual budget shall not be made to apublic investment project, including a public-privatepartnership project which is not included in the publicinvestment programme.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) and(2), public investment projects that are specificallydeveloped in response to natural disasters or emergenciesdeclared by the Government may be considered outside thepublic investment programme. Such public investmentprojects shall be subject to the criteria and procedures asmay be prescribed.

(6) The Public Investment projects referred to insubsection (5) shall be

(a)subjected to the provisions of any applicablewritten law; and

(b)approved by the Cabinet of Ministers.

43. (1) The public-private partnership projects shall besubjected to the same procedure followed in respect of publicinvestment projects under this Act. Additional provisionsapplicable to public-private partnership projects may be asprescribed. The Minister of Finance may include a public-private partnership project in the annual budget only if -

(a)such project is considered as a project which offersan economic return in terms of prescribed economic,social and environmental criteria;

(b)any guarantees provided by the Government onpublic-private partnerships do not exceed theceilings under the medium- term fiscal framework;and

Public-privatepartnershipprojects

38Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(c)the risk borne by the Government in a public-privatepartnership project is deemed reasonable andfiscally affordable, and the proposed risk mitigationstrategies are deemed sufficient and taking suchrisk is required for the projects efficientimplementation.

(2) The public-private partnership projects shall beincluded in the list of prioritized projects referred to inparagraph (a) of subsection (3) of section 42 for the approvalof the Minister of Finance for the inclusion in the annualbudget.

(3) Any expenditure from the Consolidated Fund on anapproved public-private partnership project shall beappropriated in the Appropriation Act for the relevantfinancial year and the total costs of the public-privatepartnership project over its lifetime shall be disclosed in theannual budget document.

(4) Upon the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers for apublic-private partnership project, the Ministry of theMinister of Finance shall ensure that

(a)an estimate of the contingent liabilities associatedwith all public-private partnership projects isincluded in the fiscal strategy statement; and

(b)reports on the execution of public-privatepartnership projects and their financial impact aresubmitted to the Parliament with the annual reportof the Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

44. (1) Each public entity shall ensure that all publicinvestment projects, including public-private partnershipprojects be delivered on time within the budgetaryallocation, and in accordance with the guidelines issued bythe Secretary to the Treasury.

Projectmonitoring andevaluation

39Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) Each Chief Accounting Officer or Accounting Officerresponsible for the implementation and monitoring ofapproved public investment projects shall submit the annualaction plan, and provide information on the implementationof each such projects to be monitored monthly by theMinistry of the Minister of Finance.

(3) There shall be a Committee appointed by the Cabinetof Ministers comprising members not more than eleven fromthe Heads of entities responsible for planning, resourcemobilizing, budgeting, financing and monitoring, to takeexpeditious strategic decisions relating to implementationof public investment projects based on information providedby the relevant Chief Accounting Officers and AccountingOfficers.

(4) The Head of the Department responsible for projectmonitoring and evaluation shall be the Secretary to theCommittee.

(5) The functions and responsibilities of the Committeeand the manner of monitoring and evaluation of projects asmay be prescribed.

(6) Any substantial changes to contracts or agreementsaffecting the sustainability and affordability of any projectspecified in subsection (1) shall be approved in advance bythe Minister of Finance. The Minister of Finance maydetermine the criteria for determining any change in acontract or agreement as substantive, taking into accountrelevant written laws or guidelines.

45. (1) A report together with information relate to allnew projects approved by the Public Investment Committee,and ongoing public investment projects, including public-private partnership projects shall be included in the annualbudget document. Such report shall contain -

Reporting

40Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)the name of each project, the starting date or datesand expected completion date or dates, a summaryof the objectives and scope of the project;

(b)total project cost including expenditure alreadyincurred on the project, an estimate of annualexpenditure over the medium term and financingsources; and

(c)any other information as may be deemedappropriate by the Minister of Finance.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall be responsible formaintaining an updated data repository on public investmentprojects, including public-private partnership projects.

PART X

GOVERNMENT BORROWINGS AND GUARANTEES

46. The policy framework on management of public debtand Government guarantees shall be in accordance with theprovisions of Part III of this Act and subject to the relevantlaws.

PART XI

ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING

47. (1) The financial statements of the Governmentshall

(a)be prepared complying with the standards to bedeveloped based on the international public sectoraccounting standards;

Financialreporting

Public debtmanagement

41Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)promote transparency in the disclosure to public offinancial information and effective management ofrevenue, expenditure, assets and liabilities of thepublic entities to which the accounting standardsapply; and

(c)be aimed at the advancement of financial reportingin the public sector.

(2) The budgetary entities shall prepare and submit tothe Auditor-General annual financial statement andinformation in the manner and with the frequency and detailas specified in relevant written laws.

(3) A unified chart of accounts shall be used by everybudgetary entity unless the Secretary to the Treasury exemptsa particular budgetary entity from such requirement withthe concurrence of the Minister of Finance:

Provided however, the accounts of every budgetaryentity shall reflect all necessary information.

(4) Not later than one hundred and eighty days after theclosure of every financial year

(a)each public entity covered in subparagraph (i) ofparagraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 shallpublish an annual performance report; and

(b)each public entity covered in subparagraph (ii) and(iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3shall publish an annual report,

that shall include inter-alia the accounts and other financialstatements to fulfill the requirements specified in the relevantwritten laws and regulations made thereunder.

42Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(5) The Secretary to the Treasury shall periodically issue,publish, and review the instructions, directives, processes,procedures, and systems for accounting and reporting.

(6) Unless otherwise stated in this Act, the submission ofthe accounts and other financial statements of budgetaryentities to the Auditor- General shall be in accordance withthe provisions of the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018.

48. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury shall have power torequire the public entities specified in subparagraphs (i), (ii)and (iii) of paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3 tofurnish regular reports or any other information on ad hocbasis

(a)which are necessary for the preparation of thestatements and reports referred to in this Part andmay be necessary to exercise his functions; and

(b)on matters relating to their financial management.

(2) The Head of every public entity shall furnish theinformation and reports required to be furnished by theSecretary to the Treasury under subsection (1) within thetimeframe and in the form specified by the Secretary to theTreasury.

49. (1) A budget economic and fiscal position report shallcause to be tabled in Parliament by the Minister of Financeon the day fixed for the second reading of the AppropriationBill in Parliament, in each year.

(2) The budget economic and fiscal position report shallcontain, the following information in the format as may beprescribed in relation to the current and immediatelysucceeding financial year: -

Power to requireinformation

BudgetEconomic andFiscal PositionReport

43Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)estimates relating to the gross domestic product;

(b)estimates relating to consumer prices;

(c)estimates relating to employment andunemployment;

(d)estimates relating to the current account positionof the balance of payments;

(e)estimates relating to revenue and expenditure;

(f)estimates relating to Government borrowing;

(g)the basis, economic or otherwise which has beenused in the preparation of the estimates specified inparagraphs (a) to (f);

(h)a statement relating to the sensitivity of theestimates specified in paragraphs (a) to (f) and thechanges which may occur in connection with theeconomic or other basis used in the preparation ofsuch estimates;

(i)a statement, quantified as far as practicable, the risksthat may have a material effect on the fiscal positionsuch as contingent liabilities including guaranteesand indemnities granted by the Government underany written law;

(j)public announcements relating to proposals of theGovernment in connection with Governmentspending not included in the estimates referred toin paragraph (e);

44Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(k)ongoing negotiations of the Government whichhave not been finalized, updates to the fiscalstrategy statement and the medium-term fiscalframework since the publication of the originalstatement; and

(l)such other information which may be necessary toreflect fairly the financial position of theGovernment in respect of each such financial year.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), theinformation contained in the budget economic and fiscalposition report shall take into account, as far as possible, allGovernment decisions and all other circumstances that mayhave material effect on the fiscal and economic position ofthe Government.

(4) Nothing contained in this section shall be read andconstrued as requiring the inclusion in the budget economicand fiscal position report, a disclosure of any information,in view of the written opinion of the Minister of Finance, ifsuch details or information -

(a)be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way, innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

(5) The Report shall be published on the official websiteof the Ministry of the Minister of Finance upon submissionto Parliament.

50. (1) The Minister of Finance shall cause to be releasedto the public, in respect of every year, a mid-year fiscalposition report to provide a basis for the public to evaluatethe Governments mid-year fiscal performance as against itsfiscal strategy as set out in its statement.

Mid-year fiscalposition report

45Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The mid-year fiscal position report in respect of afinancial year shall contain

(a)a statement of the estimated and actual expenditurefor the first six months of that year;

(b)a statement of the estimated and actual revenue forthe first six months of that year;

(c)a statement of the estimated and actual cash flowsfor the first six months of that year;

(d)a statement of the estimated and actual borrowingsfor the first six months of that year; and

(e)such other statements which may be necessary toreflect fairly, the financial position of theGovernment in respect of the first six months ofsuch financial year.

(3) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue orcash flow, or an excess in the estimated expenditure orborrowings, the mid-year fiscal position report shall statethe reasons for such shortfall or excess.

(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (5), theinformation contained in the mid-year fiscal position reportshall take into account, as far as possible, all Governmentdecisions and all other circumstances that may have a materialeffect on the fiscal position including decisions taken andcircumstance that exist, after the passing of the AppropriationAct for that year.

(5) Nothing contained in this section shall be read andconstrued as requiring the inclusion in the mid- year fiscalposition report or the disclosure of any information, in viewof the written opinion of the Minister of Finance, if suchdetails or information -

46Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way, innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

(6) Where any information on any matter required to beincluded in a mid-year fiscal position report remainsunchanged from the information in relation to such matteras is included in the last budget economic and fiscal positionreport, the mid-year fiscal position report shall state thatsuch information remains so unchanged.

(7) The mid-year fiscal position report shall be publishedin the website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance, bythe last day of the month of October of the relevant year orthe lapse of ten months from the date of the passing of theAppropriation Act of the relevant year, whichever is later.

(8) The Minister of Finance shall

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release ofthe mid- year fiscal position report, cause a copy ofsuch report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the date of such release; or

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the releaseof the mid-year fiscal position report, cause a copy ofsuch report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

51. (1) The Minister of Finance shall cause to be releasedto the public, in respect of each financial year, a final budgetposition report as a part of the annual report of the Ministryof the Minister of Finance to provide a basis for the public toevaluate the Governments annual fiscal performance asagainst its fiscal strategy as set out in its statement for therelevant financial year.

Final budgetposition report

47Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The final budget position report in respect of afinancial year shall contain -

(a)a statement of the estimated and actual expenditurefor that year;

(b)a statement of the estimated and actual revenue forthat year;

(c)a statement of the estimated and actual cash flowsfor that year;

(d)a statement of the estimated and actual borrowingsfor that year; and

(e)such other statements which may be necessary toreflect fairly the financial position of theGovernment at the end of such financial year.

(3) Where there is a shortfall in the estimated revenue orcash flow or an excess in the estimated expenditure thatcaused deviation from the primary expenditure limit or anexcess in the estimated borrowing, the final budget positionreport shall state the reasons for such shortfall or excess.

(4) The final budget position report shall be publishedon the website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance,not later than six months from the end of the financial year.

(5) The Minister of Finance shall

(a)if Parliament is sitting on the date of the release ofthe final budget position report, cause a copy ofsuch report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the date of such release; or

48Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)if Parliament is not sitting on the date of the releaseof the final budget position report, cause a copy ofsuch report to be tabled in Parliament within twoweeks of the next sitting of Parliament.

(6) The final budget position report for a financial yearmay be incorporated the budget economic and fiscal positionreport in respect of a financial year, which is introduced afterthe commencement of that financial year.

52. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury, shall within threeweeks of the publication of proclamation or Order requiringthe holding of a General Election to elect the members ofParliament, cause to be released to the public a pre-electionbudgetary position report containing information on thefiscal position of the country.

(2) Every pre-election budgetary position report shallcontain the following information for the current financialyear: -

(a)estimates of revenue and expenditure;

(b)estimates of the Government borrowings;

(c)the economic and other assumptions that have beenused in preparing such estimates;

(d)a statement of the risks, quantified where practicable,that may have material effect on the fiscal position,such as -

(i)contingent liabilities including guaranteesand indemnities given by the Governmentunder any Act;

Pre-electionbudgetaryposition report

49Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(ii)publicly announced proposals for spendingby the Government that have not beenincluded in the estimates referred to inparagraph (a); and

(iii)Government negotiations in progress andnot finalized; and

(e)such other information as may be necessary to reflectfairly the financial position of the Government as atthe date of the said report.

(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (4), theinformation in the pre-election budgetary position reportshall, take into account to the fullest possible, extent anydecision of the Government having a material effect on thefiscal position.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be read or construed asrequiring the inclusion in a pre-election budgetary positionreport or the disclosure of any information, in view of thewritten opinion of the Minister of Finance, if such details orinformation -

(a)be prejudicial to the national security; or

(b)compromise Sri Lanka in a material way, innegotiation, litigation or commercial activity.

(5) Where information on any matter required to beincluded in a pre- election budgetary position report remainsunchanged from the information on that matter included ina previous budget economic and fiscal position report or amid-year fiscal position report, the pre-election budgetaryposition report shall state such information remainsunchanged from the information included in either or bothof these previous reports.

50Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(6) Every pre-election budgetary position report shallbe accompanied with

(a)a statement signed by the Minister of Finance, forthe purpose that the Minister of Finance hascomplied with the requirements of subsection (8);

(b)a statement by the Secretary to the Treasury, for thepurpose that the information in the report

(i)reflects the best professional judgement ofthe officers of the Ministry of the Minister ofFinance;

(ii)takes into account all economic and fiscalinformation available to the Ministry of theMinister of Finance; and

(iii)incorporates the fiscal implications of theGovernment decisions and circumstancesdisclosed by the Minister of Finance undersubsection (8),

to the fullest extent possible.

(7) The Minister of Finance shall, within two weeks of thefirst sitting of the new Parliament, cause a copy of the reportspecified in subsection (1) to be placed before Parliamentand such report shall be published in the official website ofthe Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

(8) For the purpose of enabling the Secretary to theTreasury to prepare a pre- election budgetary position reportunder this section, the Minister of Finance shall, within oneweek of the publication of the proclamation or Orderrequiring the holding of a General Election for the election

51Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

of members of Parliament, disclose to the Secretary to theTreasury details of all Government decisions and othercircumstances

(a)within the knowledge of the Minister of Finance;and

(b)which have, or could have, material fiscal oreconomic implications.

53. (1) On at least a quarterly basis, the Minister of Financeshall provide a statement on financial performance includingrevenue and expenditure, of the Government to the Cabinetof Ministers and such statement shall be simultaneouslypublished on the official website of the Ministry of theMinister of Finance, not later than forty five days after theend of each quarter in the manner as may be prescribed.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury or an officer so authorizedshall prepare and submit to the Auditor-General the annualGovernment financial statements as specified in the NationalAudit Act, No. 19 of 2018 and any other written law.

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall prepare the annualreport containing final budget position report and chapteron the overall performance of State-Owned Enterprises alongwith the audited financial statements of the Governmentand the Auditor-Generals opinion thereon not later thanone hundred and eighty days after the closure of the financialyear in such form and manner as may be prescribed.

(4) The Minister of Finance shall place before theParliament, the annual report referred to in subsection (3),not later than one hundred and eighty days from the end ofeach financial year. The report shall be published on theofficial website of the Ministry of the Minister of Finance.

Reports onfinancialperformance ofthe Ministry ofthe Minister ofFinance

52Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

54. (1) Where any loss has been caused by delay,negligence, fault or fraud of an officer or officers, or fromnoncompliance with the provisions of this Act, regulationsor directives issued under this Act, such loss shall berecovered from the officer or officers responsible.

(2) Any claim for the write off of losses shall be consideredby the Secretary to the Treasury subject to the relevantwritten laws and having regard to the prescribed limit oflosses.

(3) A waiver is an abandonment or cancellation of anamount of money due to the Government. Waivers otherthan those arising out of losses fall into following two distinctcategories: -

(a)certain statutes empower authorized officers towaive items of revenue or other dues to Governmentin the administration of such statutes. The officersso authorized may deal with the cancellation orwavier of Government dues without furtherauthority;

(b) (i)where the collection of revenue is provided bystatute, but no provision exists therein to waive orabandon a claim; and

(ii) where the waiver of irrecoverable revenue or otherGovernment dues not falling within the provisionsof paragraph (a) of this section and subparagraph(i) of this paragraph,

authority of the Secretary to the Treasury shall besought.

Write offs andwaive offs

53Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(4) Details of actions, authority limits, timelines andguidance on investigation, reporting, recovery and write-off of a loss or damage shall be provided in the manner asmay be prescribed.

PART XII

STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES

55. The provisions of this Part shall apply to State-OwnedEnterprises as specified in subparagraph (iii) of paragraph(a) of subsection (2) of section 3.

56. The Minister of Finance shall have the power to -

(a)provide an opinion to the Cabinet of Ministersregarding proposals for the establishment, closure,or merger of each State-Owned Enterprise includingthe costs to the Government and risks associatedwith the establishment of a State-Owned Enterprise;

(b)issue corporate governance guidelines aimed atenhancing the performance of State-OwnedEnterprises;

(c)exercise financial oversight over State-OwnedEnterprises; and

(d)exercise any other power as may be specified byany other written law.

57. (1) The relevant Minister shall not submit anyproposal for the establishment of a State-Owned Enterprisein accordance with section 56

Application ofthe provisions ofthis Part

Authority of theMinister ofFinance onState-OwnedEnterprises

Authority of therelevant Ministeron State-OwnedEnterprises

54Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)without having a clear justification of therequirement of such entity;

(b)which is not under the purview of the portfolio ofthe Ministry of the relevant Minister;

(c)if any other State-Owned Enterprise exists withsimilar functions under the Ministry of the relevantMinister or any other Ministry; or

(d)without considering the long term benefits and risksassociated with such establishment or incorporationincluding the costs to the Government.

(2) The relevant Minister shall ensure that -

(a)every State-Owned Enterprise under his purviewshall provide information required by the Ministerof Finance including the submission of documentsspecified in section 61;

(b)the annual budget of the State-Owned Enterprisesis in line with the fiscal strategy statement; and

(c)the annual budget of the State-Owned Enterprisesreflects the risk factors and the strategies to mitigatethose risks.

58. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may, as he deemednecessary issue directives on policy matters for State-OwnedEnterprises covering accountability and governancerequirements, review of their financial performance and anyother matters including administration, budgeting,procurement, investment, finance and reporting, subject torelevant written laws.

Powers andduties of theSecretary to theTreasuryregarding State-OwnedEnterprises

55Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall keep a record of allshareholdings in State-Owned Enterprises.

59. (1) Every State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare theirbudget in respect of every financial year and such budgetshall be approved by the governing body of a State-OwnedEnterprise not later than fifteen days prior to thecommencement of the financial year to which the budgetrelates.

(2) The State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare their budgetestimates in line with the provisions of the budget call circularissued by the Secretary to the Treasury if any State-OwnedEnterprise is funded by the annual budget.

(3) Governing body of every State-Owned Enterprise shalladhere to the applicable regulations made under this Act inrespect of capital expenditure of the budget estimate of suchState-Owned Enterprise.

60. (1) (a) Where applicable, there shall be a dividendpolicy that shall be set by the respective governing bodiesof State-Owned Enterprises, in consultation with theSecretary to the Treasury.

(b) The Minister of Finace may impose a levy on State-Owned Enterprise where applicable and may exempt a State-Owned Enterprise from the imposition of such levy. Suchlevy shall be published in the annual report under subsection(3) of section 53.

(2) Dividends or other profit distribution from State-Owned Enterprises paid to Government shall be paid intothe Consolidated Fund and reflected in the annual budgetpresented to the Parliament.

(3) The Secretary to the Treasury shall disclose such sumscollected as levy or dividend in the annual report undersubsection (3) of section 53.

Budget of State-OwnedEnterprises

Levy ordividends fromState-OwnedEnterprises

56Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(4) No set-off tax relief shall be granted in respect of theamounts paid as a levy or dividend under this section.

61. (1) Every State-Owned Enterprise shall prepare andsubmit to the Secretary to the Treasury

(a)a medium-term strategic or corporate plan;

(b)an annual budget, an annual action plan includinginformation on their capital projects andprocurement plan;

(c)an annual report; and

(d)any other report as may be prescribed.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall from time to timepublish the formats, timelines and directions of the reportsreferred to in subsection (1).

(3) A State-Owned Enterprise shall submit to the Auditor-General a draft annual report, not later than two calendarmonths from the end of each financial year that includes theapproved financial statements of the State-Owned Enterprisealong with the statements and documents as prescribed byany written law with copies of such reports to the relevantMinister and the Minister of Finance.

(4) Upon receiving the Auditor-Generals opinion andnot later than one hundred and eighty days after the closureof every financial year, the State-Owned Enterprise shallsubmit the annual report to the Parliament with copies ofsuch reports to the relevant Minister and the Minister ofFinance and publish the report on the official website of therelevant State-Owned Enterprise.

Reports of State-OwnedEnterprises

57Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

PART XIII

PROVINCIAL COUNCILS AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES

62. (1) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution andrelevant written laws, Provincial Councils and LocalAuthorities shall adhere to the principles of transparencyand fiscal responsibility stipulated in this Act in themanagement of public finance.

(2) The Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister to whomthe subject of Provincial Councils and Local Authorities areassigned shall submit reports on revenues and expendituresand other financial information of the Provincial Councilsand Local Authorities, as may be requested by the Ministerof Finance.

PART XIV

CADRE MANAGEMENT

63. (1) The Minister of Finance shall be vested with thepower of cadre management of the public entities in a manneras may be prescribed that would achieve the objects of thisAct.

(2) Subject to the provisions of the Constitution and theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers, the responsibilities ofthe Minister of Finance with regard to cadre management,shall include the determination of the salaries and wagesand other payments, to the officers and other employees ofpublic entities.

Duty to observethe principles oftransparencyand fiscalresponsibility

Cadremanagement

58Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

PART XV

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

64. (1) An officer or an employee of a public entity towhom a power or duty is conferred or assigned under thisAct or any regulation or rule made thereunder who willfullyor negligently makes or permits an unlawful, unauthorized,irregular or wasteful expenditure or misapplication of publicfinance or public property by an act or omission, shallcommit the act of financial misconduct and shall be liableto disciplinary action.

(2) The Head of the relevant public entity shall take, or inthe event that he is not the disciplinary authority of theofficer alleged to have committed the financial misconduct,shall immediately inform the disciplinary authority of thedisciplinary action against the officer or employee who isliable to the financial misconduct under subsection (1).

(3) (a) Where an offence under this Act or any regulationor rule made thereunder is committed by a body of persons,if such body of persons is -

(i)a body corporate, every director and officerof such body corporate including the chiefexecutive officer, the principal executiveofficer or the chief administrative officer asthe case may be of that body corporate; or

(ii)a partnership, every partner of suchpartnership,

shall be deemed to have committed that offence.

Financialmisconduct bypublic officersand governingbody of a publicentity

59Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)The Secretary of the Ministry of the relevantMinister shall immediately take disciplinary action againstthe body of persons who is liable for the financial misconductunder paragraph (a):

Provided that any officer or body of persons as the casemay be, shall not be deemed to have committed such offence,if such person proves to the satisfaction of the disciplinaryauthority that such offence was committed without hisknowledge or that such person exercised all due diligenceas was necessary, to prevent the commission of such offence.

65. The Chief Accounting Officer, through the relevantMinister shall report to the Cabinet of Ministers, any noncompliance of a public entity coming under the purview ofsuch Minister, with the requirements stipulated under thisAct or any regulations made thereunder.

PART XVI

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

66. In the event of any conflict or inconsistency betweenthe provisions of this Act and the provisions of any otherlaw governing the management of public finance in SriLanka, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

67. (1) The Minister of Finance may make regulations inrespect of matters required by this Act to be prescribed or inrespect of which regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powerscontained in subsection (1), the Minister of Finance maymake regulations -

Report the non-compliance tothe Cabinet ofMinisters

Regulations

Consistency withother laws

60Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(a)on establishing commitments, paying obligations,and other requirements for an effective commitmentcontrol system;

(b)by classifying arrears; and

(c)on the management of and settlement of arrears, thereporting requirements of arrears, the inclusion ofarrears in the annual debt report required underrelevant written laws applicable to the managementof public debt, and such other matters in relation tothe control of arrears.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister of Financeshall be published in the Gazette and shall come intooperation on the date of such publication or on such laterdate as may be specified in that regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister of Financeshall, within three months, after its publication in the Gazette,be brought before Parliament for approval.

(5) Every regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of such disapprovalbut without prejudice to anything duly done thereunder.Notification of the date on which any regulation is deemedto be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

(6) Until such regulations are framed

(a)the financial regulations of the Government of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lankaapproved by the Minister of Finance published inyear 1992;

61Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(b)circulars issued by the Secretary to the President,Secretary to the Treasury and the Heads ofDepartments under the General Treasury; and

(c)circular issued by a Secretary to a Ministry with theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers,

with regard to public financial management shall continueto be in force, in so far as such regulations and circulars arenot inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.

68. (1) The Secretary to the Treasury may issue to thepublic entities and persons referred to in subsection (2) ofsection 3, directives deemed as necessary for the purpose ofimplementing the provisions of this Act.

(2) The Secretary to the Treasury shall publish suchdirectives on the official website of the Ministry of theMinister of Finance.

PART XVII

REPEALS

69. (1) Sections 8 and 14 of the Finance Act, No. 38 of1971 are hereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of section 8 of Part II ofthe Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971, any budget prepared byany public corporation in terms of the provisions of repealedsection 8 of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 andsubsisting on the day immediately preceding the date ofcoming into operation of this Act, shall be deemed to be abudget prepared under section 59 of this Act.

Power to issueinstructions ordirectives

Repeals

62Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

(3) Fiscal Management (Responsibility) Act, No. 3 of2003 is hereby repealed.

PART XVIII

INTERPRETATION

70. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires -

Accounting Officer shall have the same meaning asin the National Audit Act, No. 19 of 2018;

annual action plan means the document that outlinesthe actions, activities and resources that will beused to achieve goals and priorities of the publicentity for a financial year;

annual budget means the budget approved by theParliament for a financial year;

Appropriation Act means an Act reviewed andapproved by the Parliament to make a paymentfrom the Consolidated Fund;

arrears means financial liabilities unpaid at thematurity date, the latter established by writtenlaw or by contract, should the maturity not beestablished by either of the mechanismsdescribed above, the maturity period shall beestablished as ninety days from the date of therelevant invoice or of satisfaction of the terms ofthe relevant contract;

budgetary entities means Ministries, Departments,District Secretariats of the Government andspecial spending units;

Interpretation

63Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

Central Bank means the Central Bank establishedunder the Central Bank of Sri Lanka Act, No.16of 2023;

Chief Accounting Officer shall have the samemeaning as in the National Audit Act, No. 19 of2018;

commitment means the administrative action towhich requisition is made prior to making anobligation;

Constitution means the Constitution of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

Department means an entity setup statutorily oradministratively, that has been assigned a specificarea of activity and has been given a Head ofExpenditure in the annual budget;

directives include circulars, guidelines or specialdirections issued by General Treasury or Departmentunder the General Treasury;

District Secretariat means an entity entrusted with theadministrative and development function of thedistrict;

disposal means the sale, transfer, license, lease orother disposition including any sale and leasebacktransaction of any property by any person,including any sale, assignment, transfer or otherdisposal, with or without recourse, of any notes oraccounts receivable or any rights and claimsassociated therewith;

64Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

financial year means notwithstanding anything tothe contrary in any other written law, thefinancial year of the Government and publicentities shall be twelve months commencing onfirst day of January of each year other than theCompanies established under the CompaniesAct, No. 07 of 2007, with a Government stake;

fiscal risk means factors or events that may cause fiscalrevenue, expense, financing, asset and liabilityvariables to deviate from forecasts in annual andmulti-year fiscal programming; and it mayoriginates from domestic or foreign macroeconomicconditions, State-Owned Enterprises operation,implementation of public-private partnerships, andnatural disasters among other causes;

Government means the Government of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

guarantee means an explicit undertaking by theGovernment as the guarantor to guaranteefulfillment of contracted obligations of anotherlegal person or entity under certain specifiedconditions;

Head of Expenditure means, in relation to theAppropriation Act, the annual budget and thesupplementary estimates, an appropriation that

(a)specifies the total expenditure for abudgetary entity; and

(b)separately voted by the Parliament;

65Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

levy means a payment made by a public corporationto the Consolidated Fund of a return on thecapital grants of the Government at such rate ora payment to the Consolidated Fund of suchamount as may be determined, from time to time,by the Minister;

medium-term means between three to five years;

medium-term fiscal framework means a set ofeconomic assumptions and fiscal projections andtargets covering the upcoming financial year andthe four succeeding financial years (projectionyears);

national development policy framework means alogical and an overarching structure that entailslong-term goals and guidance for thedevelopment of policies;

national policy means the policies derived from thenational development policy framework toachieve the national development objectives;

non-financial assets means produced or non-produced movable or immovable assets,including lands, buildings, structures, plant andmachinery, vehicles, office equipment andfurniture, and other assets declared as non-financial assets that are fully owned, assigned,possessed, vested in, utilized, or leased by apublic entity;

non statutory funds means funds that are notestablished by law;

66Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

official bank account means any bank accountopened with the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or acommercial bank or a specialized bank licensedunder the provisions of the Banking Act, No. 30of 1988 and authorized by the Secretary to theTreasury as prescribed by regulations, to beoperated and maintained in order to facilitatethe management of public finance;

primary balance shall be the overall balance of theGovernment excluding interest payments of theGovernment. In calculating the primary balance,proceeds from privatization orcommercialization of public assets shall not bepart of Government revenues, and theGovernments equity injections to corporationsother than banks for recapitalization purposesshall be recorded as Government expenditure;

primary expenditure shall be the total expenditureof the Government excluding debt services in afinancial year;

prescribed means prescribed by regulations;

President means the President of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished for a Province by virtue of Article154A of the Constitution;

public corporation shall have the same meaningassigned to such expression under Article 170of the Constitution;

67Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

public debt means liabilities of the Governmentcreated by debt and debt of the entities specifiedin paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 3;

public finance includes

(a)funds allocated to any public entityspecified in paragraph (a) of subsection(2) of section 3 by the Appropriation Actof the relevant year;

(b)funds held by any public entity specifiedin paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section3 in terms of any written law excludingapproved termination funds whichincludes thrift, savings or building societyor welfare fund to which contributions aremade by employees or, any gratuity fundmaintained for the purpose of payment ofgratuities to employees on the terminationof their services under the relevant writtenlaw;

(c)funds vested in the Government by virtueof the provisions of any written law; and

(d)funds received or borrowed by any publicentity specified in paragraph (a) ofsubsection (2) of section 3 with theapproval of the Parliament;

public funds means moneys in the ConsolidatedFund or any other Fund and moneys under thecontrol of the Government excluding approvedtermination funds which includes thrift, savings

68Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

or building society or welfare fund to whichcontributions are made by employees or, anygratuity fund maintained for the purpose ofpayment of gratuities to employees on thetermination of their services under the relevantwritten law;

public investment programme means a medium-termrolling plan consisting of all ongoing andproposed public investment projects and public-private partnership projects prepared based onthe national development policy framework;

public investment project means an integrated setof activities funded by the Government,provincial council or local authority aimed atallocating resources of financial, physical orservice towards the development, improvement,operation or maintenance of public assets orservices to enhance the quality of life of citizensand promote economic growth and addresssocietal needs;

public office holder means Government appointeeto a body entrusted with an advisory oradministration function, and remuneratedthrough the public finance;

public officer shall have the same meaning given inArticle 170 of the Constitution;

public-private partnership means a long-termcontract between a private party and aGovernment entity for providing a public assetor service in which the private party bearssignificant risk and management responsibility;

69Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

relevant Minister means the Minister under whosepurview the public entity is assigned under theparagraph (1) of Article 44 of the Constitution;

Revenue Accounting Officer means an AccountingOfficer who is vested with the responsibility offacilitating of the preparation of the annualrevenue estimates of the revenue codes assignedby the annual budget estimates and who willultimately accountable for variations betweenestimate and actual collections;

special spending unit means an entity, other than aMinistry, Department, District Secretariat orProvincial Council, that has been given a Headof Expenditure in the annual budget;

State-Owned Enterprise means -

(a)a public corporation within the meaningof the Constitution;

(b)entities established and operated under theCompanies Act, No.07 of 2007 in whichthe State has direct or indirect controllinginterest by virtue of its shareholding; or

(c)State-Owned Corporations, converted interms of the Conversion of PublicCorporations or Government OwnedBusiness Undertakings into PublicCompanies Act, No.23 of 1987, or suchother Acts in terms of which any businessentity has been vested with theGovernment,

70Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

with the exception of the Central Bank ofSri Lanka ;

Statutory Fund means any fund other than theConsolidated Fund, created or established underany written law or an Act of Parliament for aspecific purpose, to which public finances areallocated excluding approved termination fundswhich includes thrift, savings or building societyor welfare fund to which contributions are madeby employees or, any gratuity fund maintainedfor the purpose of payment of gratuities toemployees on the termination of their services,under the relevant written law;

tax expenditure includes exemptions, allowances,credits, rate reliefs and tax deferrals pertainingto tax;

trust shall have the same meaning assign to that insection 3 of the Trust Ordinance, No. 9 of 1917;and

vote on account means an estimate of Governmentexpenditure approved by the Parliament in orderto continue the Government services anddevelopment activities for a maximum of fourmonths, in the absence of an Appropriation Act.

71. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in theevent ofinconsistency

71Public Financial ManagementAct, No. 44 of 2024

DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTINGEnglish Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.