PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

ANTI-DUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES

ACT, No. 2 OF 2018

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of March, 2018]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 84.00Postage : Rs. 35.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 23, 2018

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 20181

[ Certified on 19th of March, 2018]

L.D.O. 68/2016

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE INVESTIGATION AND IMPOSITION OF ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES AND COUNTERVAILING DUTIES WITH REGARD TO

PRODUCTS IMPORTED INTO SRI LANKA AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS Sri Lanka was one of the original contractingparties to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade of1947(GATT 1947):

AND WHEREAS the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade1994 (GATT 1994) which is based upon the text of GATT1947 and was signed in April 1994, includes among othersthe Agreement on Implementation of Article VI of theGeneral Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 and theAgreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures:

AND WHEREAS Sri Lanka intends to protect the domesticindustries from prohibited and actionable subsidies anddumping:

AND WHEREAS it is expedient to make legislativeprovisions for the implementation in Sri Lanka of the twoagreements referred to above:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Anti-Dumping andCountervailing Duties Act, No. 2 of 2018, and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint, byOrder published in the Gazette.

Preamble.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

2Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

PART I

ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES

2.Anti-dumping duties may be imposed on productsimported into Sri Lanka, where the Director-Generaldetermines pursuant to an investigation initiated andconducted in accordance with the provisions of this Part ofthis Act, that

(a)the investigated product is being dumped;

(b)there is injury being caused to the Sri Lankanindustry; and

(c)there exists a causal link between the dumping andthe injury caused.

3.Where imports of like products from more than onecountry are the subject of simultaneous anti-dumping dutyinvestigations, the Director-General may, for the purpose ofdetermining whether injury exists, cumulatively assess theeffects of such dumped imports on the Sri Lankan industry,only where

(a)the applications are filed under section 14 of thisAct;

(b)the Director-General determines that the amount ofdumping established in relation to the investigatedproduct imported from each country is more thande minimis and the volume of investigated productsimported from each country is not negligible asspecified in section 20 of this Act; and

(c)the Director-General determines that a cumulativeassessment of the effects of the imports ofinvestigated product is appropriate in the light ofthe conditions of competition between the imported

Assessment ofeffects.

Generalprinciple.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 20183

product and the conditions of competition betweenthe imported products and the domestic likeproduct.

ESTABLISHING THE NORMAL VALUE

4.(1) For the purposes of this Part of this Act, theDirector-General may determine the normal value of aninvestigated product, on the basis of the comparable pricepaid or payable in the ordinary course of trade for the likeproduct, when destined for consumption in the domesticmarket of the exporting country.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theDirector-General may determine the normal value on thebasis of comparable price paid or payable in the ordinarycourse of trade for the like product when destined forconsumption in the domestic market of the country of origin,where

(a)the products are merely trans-shipped through thecountry of export;

(b)products are not produced in the country of export;or

(c)there is no comparable price for them in the countryof export.

(3) Where under subsection (2), the normal value isdetermined on the basis of the country of origin, reference insections 5, 6, 7 and 9 to the exporting country, shall bedeemed to be a reference to the country of origin.

5.(1) Where there are no sales in the ordinary course oftrade of the like product in the domestic market of theexporting country under subsection (1) of section 4, or where,because of the particular market situation or the low volume

Basis fordeterminingnormal value.

Normal value tobe based onexport price to athird country.

4Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

of the sales in the domestic market of the exporting country,such sales do not permit a proper comparison, the normalvalue of the investigated product shall be

(a)the comparable price paid or payable in theordinary course of trade for the like product exportedto any appropriate third country, provided that suchprice shall be representative; or

(b)the cost of production of such product includingadministrative, selling and general costs in theexporting country, plus a reasonable amount forprofits.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), sales of like productdestined for consumption in the domestic market of theexporting country or the appropriate third country, shallnormally be considered to be a sufficient quantity for thedetermination of the normal value, if such sales constitutefive per centum or more of the sales of the investigatedproduct to Sri Lanka, except that a lower ratio shall beacceptable, where the evidence shows that domestic sales atsuch lower ratio are of sufficient magnitude to provide for aproper comparison.

6.(1) Sales of the like product in the domestic marketof the exporting country, or sales to a third country at pricesbelow per unit (fixed and variable) cost of production, maybe treated as not being in the ordinary course of trade byreason of price, and may be disregarded in determiningnormal value, only where the Director-General determinesthat such sales are made

(a)within an extended period of time (which generallyis twelve months and not less than six months) insubstantial quantities; and

(b)at prices which do not provide for the recovery ofall costs within a reasonable period of time.

Sales not in theordinary courseof trade.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 20185

(2) For the purpose of paragraph (a) of subsection (1),sales below cost shall be considered to be made in substantialquantities, where it is established that

(a)the weighted average selling price of thetransactions under consideration is below theweighted average cost; or

(b)the volume of sales below cost represent twentyper centum or more of the volume sold in thetransactions under consideration.

(3) Where prices which are below per unit cost at the timeof sale, are above weighted average per unit cost for theperiod of investigation or review, the Director-General shallconsider such prices as providing for the recovery of costswithin a reasonable period of time.

7.(1) For the purpose of subsection (1) of section 5 ofthis Act, costs shall generally be calculated on the basis ofrecords maintained by the exporter or producer underinvestigation, provided that such records

(a)are maintained in accordance with generallyaccepted accounting principles of the exportingcountry; and

(b)reasonably reflect the costs associated with theproduction and sale of the like product.

(2) The Director-General shall consider all availableevidence on the proper allocation of costs, including anyevidence made available by the exporter or producer in thecourse of the investigation of allocations which have beenhistorically utilized by the exporter or producer, in particularin relation to establishing appropriate amortization anddepreciation periods, and allowances for capitalexpenditures and other development costs.

Calculation ofcost for purposesubsection (1) ofsection 5.

6Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(3) Unless already reflected in the cost allocations underthis section, costs shall be adjusted appropriately for thosenon-recurring items of cost which benefit future or currentproduction, or for circumstances in which costs during theperiod of investigation are affected by start-up operations.

(4) The adjustment made for start-up operations shallreflect the costs at the end of the start-up period or, if thatperiod extends beyond the period of investigation, the mostrecent costs which can reasonably be taken into account bythe Director-General during the investigation.

8.(1) The cost of production of the like product forthe purpose of sections 5 and 6 of this Act, shall be the totalsum of

(a)the cost of materials whether direct or indirect andfabrication or processing in the production of theinvestigated product in the exporting country; and

(b)a reasonable amount for administrative, selling andgeneral costs (including financial cost and profits).

(2) The determination of the amounts referred to insubsection (1) shall be based on actual data pertaining toproduction and sales in the ordinary course of trade of thelike product in the exporting country, by the producer orexporter under investigation or review. Where such amountscannot be determined on this basis, the amounts may bedetermined on the basis of

(a)the actual amounts incurred and realized by theexporter or producer under investigation or review,in respect of production and sales in the domesticmarket of the country of origin, of the same generalcategory of products;

(b)the weighted average of the actual amounts incurredand realized by other exporters or producers subject

Determining ofcost ofproduction.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 20187

to investigation, in respect of production and salesof the like products in the domestic market of thecountry of origin; or

(c)any other reasonable method, provided that, the amountfor profit so established shall not exceed the profitnormally realized by other exporters or producers onsales of products of the same general category in thedomestic market of the country of origin.

(3) In computing the constructed value of the investigatedproduct, the Director-General may disregard any cost arisingout of a transaction directly or indirectly between relatedparties or among parties which appear to have compensatoryarrangements with each other, unless that cost is comparableto the costs between unrelated parties or parties which donot have compensatory arrangements with each other.

(4) If a transaction is disregarded under subsection (3)and there are no other transactions available forconsideration, the determination of the amounts required tobe considered under subsection (1), shall be based on thefacts available as to what the amounts would have been ifthe transaction had occurred between unrelated parties orparties without the compensatory arrangements.

9.(1) The export price of an investigated product shallbe the price actually paid or payable for the investigatedproduct, when sold for export from the exporting country toSri Lanka.

(2) Where there is no export price or where it appears tothe Director-General that the export price is unreliablebecause of an association or a compensatory arrangementbetween the exporter and the importer or a third party, theexport price may be constructed

(a)on the basis of the price at which the importedproducts are first resold to an independent buyer; or

Export price.

8Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(b)if the products are not resold to an independentbuyer, or not resold in the condition as imported,on such reasonable basis as the Director-Generalmay determine.

(3) If the export price is constructed in the mannerspecified in subsection (2), allowance shall be made for costincurred between importation and resale of the investigatedproduct.

(4) Where, under subsection (2) of section 4 of this Act,the Director-General determines the normal value on thebasis of the country of origin, the export price shall be theprice actually paid or payable for the investigated productwhen sold for export in the country of origin.

10.(1) A fair comparison shall be made by the Director-General between the export price and the normal value ofany investigated product and such comparison shall be madeat the same level of trade, generally at the ex-factory level,and in respect of sales made at, as nearly as possible, thesame time.

(2) In the comparison of normal value and export priceunder subsection (1), due allowance shall be made in eachcase on its merits to:

(a)differences which affect price comparability;

(b)differences in conditions and terms of sale, taxation,levels of trade, quantities, physical characteristics;and

(c)any other differences which are demonstrated byparties interested as affecting price comparability.

(3) The Director-General when acting under subsection(2), shall ensure that no duplication takes place in theadjustments made.

Comparison ofnormal valueand exportprice.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 20189

(4) In cases where export price is constructed underparagraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 9 of this Act,allowances for costs, including duties and taxes incurredbetween importation and resale, and a reasonable amountfor profit accruing, may also be made, and the Director-General shall, where price comparability has been affected,establish the normal value at a level of trade equivalent tothe level of trade of the export price constructed under thatparagraph, or shall make due allowances as warranted underthis section.

(5) To ensure that a fair comparison is being done, theDirector-General shall indicate to the parties in question theinformation that is required from them and shall not imposeany unreasonable burden of proof on the parties in question.

11.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 10, theexistence of dumping margin shall, generally be establishedon the basis of a comparison of a weighted average normalvalue with a weighted average of prices of all comparableexport transactions, or by a comparison of normal value andexport prices on a transaction to transaction basis.

(2) A normal value established on a weighted averagebasis may be compared to prices of individual exporttransactions, if the Director-General finds a pattern of exportprices which differ significantly among different purchasers,regions or time periods. It shall be the duty of the Director-General to explain in such cases, why such difference cannotbe taken into account appropriately, by the use of a weightedaverage to weighted average or transaction to transactioncomparison.

12.(1) Where the comparison of normal value andexport price under sections 10 and 11 requires a conversionof currencies, that conversion, subject to subsections (3)and (5), shall be made using the rate of exchange on the dateof sale.

Comparisonmethods.

Currencyconversion.

10Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) The date of sale shall, generally be the date of contract,purchase order, order confirmation or invoice whicheverestablishes the material terms of the sale of the exportedproduct.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1) or(2), when a forward rate of exchange is used in relation to anexport sale, the Director-General shall use the rate ofexchange in the forward sale, for all the related transactions.

(4) Where

(a) the comparison referred to in subsection (1)requires conversion of currencies; and

(b) the rate of exchange between those currencieshas undergone a short-term fluctuation,

the Director-General shall, for the purposes of thatcomparison, disregard that fluctuation.

(5) Where

(a) the comparison referred to in subsection (1)requires conversion of currencies; and

(b) the Director-General is satisfied that the rate ofexchange between those currencies hasundergone a sustained movement during theperiod of investigation,

the Director-General shall allow exporters not less than sixtydays to adjust their export prices, to reflect the sustainedmovement.

13.(1) The Director-General shall as a rule, determinean individual dumping margin for each known exporter orproducer of the investigated product.

Individualdumpingmargins.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201811

(2) Where the number of exporters, producers, importersor types of the investigated product is so large as to make itimpracticable to determine an individual dumping marginfor each known exporter or producer, the Director-Generalmay limit the examination either to a reasonable number ofparties interested or investigated products, by using sampleswhich are statistically valid on the basis of informationavailable to the Director-General at the time of the selection,or to the largest percentage of the volume of the exportsfrom the country in question which can reasonably beinvestigated.

(3) Any selection of exporters, producers, importers ortypes of products made under subsection (2), shall preferablybe chosen in consultation with and with the consent of theexporters, producers or importers concerned.

(4)Where the Director-General has limited theexamination under this section, it shall neverthelessdetermine an individual dumping margin for any exporteror producer who voluntarily submits the necessaryinformation in time for that information to be consideredduring the course of the investigation.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4),where the number of exporters or producers is so large thatindividual examinations would be unduly burdensome tothe Director-General and prevent the timely completion ofthe investigation, the Director-General may decline todetermine an individual dumping margin on the basis ofvoluntary responses, and limit the examination to theexporters and producers in the sample.

INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION

14.(1) Except as provided for in section 19, aninvestigation under this Part of this Act shall be initiatedupon a written application in the prescribed form being madeby or on behalf of a Sri Lankan industry, accompanied bysuch fee as may be prescribed.

Requirement ofa writtenapplication.

12Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) Applications shall be submitted to the Director-General in such a number of copies, as the Director-Generalmay determine.

(3) For the purposes of this section, an application shallbe considered to have been made by or on behalf of a SriLankan industry, if such application is supported by thoseSri Lankan producers whose collective output constitutesmore than fifty per centum of the total production of thedomestic like product produced by that portion of the SriLankan industry, expressing either support for or oppositionto the application:

Provided that, those producers who express their supportto the application shall be accounted for not less than twenty-five per centum of the total production of the domestic likeproduct, produced by the Sri Lankan industry.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), inthe case of fragmented industries involving an exceptionallylarge number of producers, the Director-General maydetermine support and opposition, by using statisticallyvalid sampling techniques.

15.An application form prescribed under section 14shall provide for the submission of such information as isreasonably available to the applicant, on the followingmatters:

(a)name, address and telephone number of theapplicant;

(b)a description of the volume and value of thedomestic like product produced by the applicant;

(c)the identity of the Sri Lankan industry by or onbehalf of which the application is being made,including the names, addresses and telephonenumbers of all other known producers of the like

Information.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201813

product in the Sri Lankan industry, and a descriptionto the extent available to the applicant, of thevolume and value of the like product accounted forby such known producers;

(d)complete description of the allegedly dumpedproduct, including the technical characteristics anduses of the product and its harmonized commoditydescription and coding system classification;

(e)the name of the country in which the allegedlydumped product is manufactured or produced, andif it is imported from a country other than thecountry of manufacture or production, theintermediate country from which the product isimported;

(f)the name and address of each person, the applicantbelieves, sells the allegedly dumped product andthe proportion of total exports to Sri Lanka thatperson accounted for, during the most recent twelve-months period;

(g)information on prices at which the product inquestion is sold, when destined for consumptionin the domestic market of the country of exportor origin, or where appropriate, information onthe prices at which the product is sold from thecountry of export or origin to a third country oron the constructed value of the allegedly dumpedproduct;

(h)information on export prices or, where appropriate,on the prices at which the allegedly dumpedproduct is first resold to an independent buyer inSri Lanka, and on any adjustments as provided forin section 10 of this Act; and

14Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(i)information on the evolution of the volume of theallegedly dumped imports, the effect of theseimports on prices of the domestic like products inthe Sri Lankan market and the consequent impactof the imports on the Sri Lankan industry, asdemonstrated by relevant factors and indices havinga bearing on the state of the Sri Lankan industry,such as those listed in section 76, subsections (1),(2) and (3) of section 77 and section 78 of this Act,and information on the existence of a causal link asprovided for in subsections (4), (5), (6) and (7) ofsection 77.

16.(1) The Director-General and the Minister shall,unless a decision has been made to initiate an investigation,avoid any publicity being given to the application for theinitiation of an investigation, under section 14.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theDirector-General shall, upon receipt of an applicationfulfilling the requirements of section 15 of this Act,immediately notify the government of each exportingcountry concerned, of such fact.

17.An application made under section 14 may bewithdrawn:

(a)at any time prior to the initiation of an investigation,in which case it shall be considered to have notbeen made; or

(b)at any time after an investigation has been initiated,in which case the Director-General shall terminatethe investigation without measures, unless hedetermines that it shall be continued in the economicinterest of Sri Lanka.

Publicizing ofthe application.

Withdrawal ofan application.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201815

18.(1) The Director-General shall, having examinedthe accuracy and adequacy of the evidence provided in theapplication, determine whether there is sufficient evidenceto justify the initiation of an investigation. In arriving at adecision, the Director-General may where necessary, seekfurther information from the applicant.

(2) Where the Director-General determines that

(a) the application is made by or on behalf of aSri Lankan industry; and

(b) there is sufficient evidence of dumping, injuryand causal link within the meaning of thisAct,

the Director-General shall decide, within forty days ofreceipt of the application, whether or not to initiate aninvestigation.

19.The Minister may, in special circumstances directthe Director-General to initiate an investigation, withouthaving an application being made by or on behalf of the SriLankan industry, for the initiation of such investigation,where

(a)the Director-General submits to the Ministersufficient evidence of dumping, injury and a causallink, within the meaning of this Act, to justify theinitiation of an investigation; and

(b)the Director-General recommends the initiation ofan investigation on the basis of the availableevidence.

Decision toinitiate.

Self-initiation.

16Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

20.Notwithstanding the provisions of section 18 andsection 19 of this Act, the Director-General shall not initiatean investigation, where from information available to theDirector-General, he determines that

(a)imports of the allegedly dumped product from thatcountry into Sri Lanka represent less than three percentum of total imports of the allegedly dumpedand like product in Sri Lanka, unless imports of theallegedly dumped product from countries underinvestigation, which individually account for lessthan three per centum of the imports of the allegedlydumped and like product in Sri Lanka, collectivelyaccount for more than seven per centum of importsof the allegedly dumped and like product in SriLanka; or

(b)the dumping margin is less than two per centum,expressed as a percentage of the export price.

21.(1) Where an investigation is initiated under thisPart of this Act, the Director-General shall:

(a)notify of such investigation to the exporters,importers and representative associations ofimporters or exporters known to the Director-General to be concerned, as well as representativesof the exporting countries, the complainants andany other parties interested; and

(b)give public notice by publishing a notice in anynewspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka, in allthree languages.

(2) The notification and public notice referred to insubsection (1), shall contain adequate information on thefollowing matters:

(a)the name of the country or countries of export, andif different, the country or countries of origin, ofthe investigated product;

Negligibleimport volumesand de minimisdumpingmargins.

Public notice ofdetermination toinitiate aninvestigation.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201817

(b)a complete description of the investigated product,including the technical characteristics and uses ofthe product and its harmonized commoditydescription and coding system classification;

(c)a description of the alleged dumping to beinvestigated, including the basis for suchallegations;

(d)a summary of the factors on which the allegationsof injury and casual link are based;

(e)the address to which information and commentsmay be submitted;

(f)the date of initiation of the investigation; and

(g)the proposed schedule for the conduct of theinvestigation.

(3) The initiation of an investigation shall be deemed tohave commenced on the date on which the public noticerequired under paragraph (b) of subsection (1) is published.

22.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 25 relatingto the protection of confidential information, the Director-General shall, as soon as an investigation is initiated, providethe full text of the written application received under section14, to all known exporters and foreign producers and to theauthorities of the exporting country, and upon request, makeit available to any other parties interested in suchinvestigation.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),where the number of exporters involved is large, the Director-General may provide the text of the application to anyrelevant trade associations or, where that is not so possible,to the authorities of the exporting countries.

Disclosure ofapplication.

18Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATION

23.It shall be the duty of the Director-General except inspecial circumstances, to conclude an anti-dumping investigationwithin a period of twelve months of its initiation and in no casemore than a period of eighteen months of its initiation.

24.The initiation of an anti-dumping investigationshall not hinder the procedures of customs clearance, andonce measures are adopted, no additional formalities otherthan those required for the application of those measures,shall be applied.

25.(1) The Director-General shall keep confidential,all information submitted which is entitled to such treatmentunder subsection (2) of this section, and such informationshall not be disclosed without specific permission of theparty submitting it.

(2) The Director General shall treat as confidential allinformation designated as confidential by the partysupplying such information, which is protected fromdisclosure under the Right to Information Act, No. 12 of2016.

(3) The following types of information, if designated asconfidential by the person submitting such information, shallfor the purpose of subsection (2) be deemed to be suppliedin confidence in terms of paragraph (i) of section 5(1) of theRight to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

(a)business or trade secrets concerning the nature of aproduct, production processes, operations,production equipment, or machinery;

(b)information concerning the financial condition ofa company which is not publicly available; and

(c)information concerning the costs, identification ofcustomers, sales, inventories, shipments, amountor source of any income, profit, loss or expenditurerelated to the manufacture and sale of a product.

Duration ofinvestigation.

Customsclearance.

Confidentiality.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201819

(4) A party to an investigation may seek confidentialstatus for certain information made available to the Director-General on request being made in that behalf at the timesuch information is submitted, including reasons for therequest for such treatment. The Director-General shallconsider such requests expeditiously, and shall inform theparty submitting the information, if he determines that therequest for confidential treatment is not warranted.

(5) Parties to an investigation shall furnish non-confidential summaries of all information for whichconfidential treatment is sought, which may take the form ofindexation of figures provided in the confidential version,or marked deletions in the text and which shall permit areasonable understanding of the substance of the informationsubmitted in confidence.

(6) In exceptional circumstances, parties may indicatethat information for which confidential treatment is soughtis not susceptible of summary, in which case a statement ofthe reasons why summarization is not possible, shall also beprovided by such parties.

(7) Where the Director-General is of the view that thenon-confidential summary provided under subsection (5)fails to satisfy the requirements of that subsection, theDirector-General may determine that the request forconfidential treatment is not warranted, and where in suchinstance the supplier of the information is unwilling to makethe information public, the Director-General shall disregardsuch information, and return the information concerned tothe party who submitted it, unless it is demonstrated to thesatisfaction of the Director-General that the information iscorrect.

26.(1) Where, at any time during an investigation, anyparty interested

(a)refuses access to, or otherwise does not provide anynecessary information within the time determinedby the Director-General; or

Reliance oninformationavailable.

20Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(b)otherwise significantly impedes the investigation,

the Director-General may reach preliminary and finaldeterminations (affirmative or negative), on the basis of theinformation available, including information contained inthe application. The provisions of the First Schedule to thisAct, shall be followed by the Director-General in reaching adetermination under this subsection.

(2) The Director-General shall take due account of anydifficulties experienced by parties interested, in particularsmall companies, in supplying information requested for,and as such shall provide any practicable assistance or mayextend the time granted for the submission of any specifiedinformation, as the case may be.

27.(1) The Director-General shall establish andmaintain a public file relating to each investigation or reviewconducted under this Act. Subject to the provisions ofsection 25, the Director-General shall place in the publicfile:

(a)all public notices relating to the investigation orreview;

(b)all material, including questionnaires, responses toquestionnaires, and written communicationssubmitted to the Director-General;

(c)all other information developed or attained by theDirector-General including any verification reportsprepared under section 33; and

(d)any other documents the Director-General deemsappropriate for public disclosure.

(2) The public file shall be made available to the publicfor review and copying at the office of the Director-General,throughout the period of the investigation, review and anyresulting judicial review.

Public file andaccess thereto.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201821

INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE

28.The Director-General shall, in the notice publishedunder section 21 of the initiation of an investigation, includethe proposed procedure for the conduct of the investigation,including the proposed time-limits for submission of writtenarguments, the proposed date for any hearing if requested,the proposed date for the preliminary determination and theproposed date for the final determination.

29.(1) Upon the initiation of an investigation, theDirector-General shall send questionnaires to any person,he believes, may have information relevant to theinvestigation, including domestic producers, importers,exporters and foreign producers.

(2) The Director-General shall grant the exporters andforeign producers to whom the questionnaire is sent, a periodof not less than thirty seven days for reply, beginning fromthe date on which the questionnaire was sent to therespondent or transmitted to the appropriate diplomatic orofficial representative of the exporting country. The Director-General shall give due consideration to any request for anextension of the time granted to reply and shall grant suchan extension whenever practicable, upon good cause shown,taking into consideration the time limits set for theconclusion of the investigation.

(3) The Director-General may disregard any reply to aquestionnaire that is not submitted within the time provided,or in the form in which it was requested to be sent.

(4) The Director-General may, during the course of aninvestigation, request for further information from partiesinterested in the form of supplementary questionnaires, orwritten requests for clarification or additional information.Such requests shall state the date by which reply should beforwarded, taking into consideration sufficient time that maybe required to send a meaningful reply.

Proposedschedule forinvestigation.

Gatheringinformation.

22Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(5) Any party interested may on its own initiative, submitin writing, any information it considers relevant to theinvestigation, which shall be considered by the Director-General, unless such consideration would be undulyburdensome or would disrupt the timely progress of theinvestigation.

(6) The Director-General shall base his assessments ofdumping, injury and causal link on data relating to definedperiods, which shall

(a)in the case of dumping, generally cover a period ofnot less than six months and not more than twelvemonths preceding the date of initiation of theinvestigation for which data is available; and

(b)in the case of injury, generally cover a period ofthirty six months.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (6), theDirector-General may where appropriate, determine a shorteror longer period as the case may be, in the light of availableinformation regarding the Sri Lankan industry, and the natureof the investigated product.

30.Parties interested may, not later than a period offifteen days before the date scheduled for the making of thepreliminary determination, submit written argumentsconcerning any matter relevant to the investigation.

31.(1) The Director-General shall make a preliminarydetermination of dumping, injury and causal link, not earlierthan a period of two months and not later than a period offive months after initiation of the investigation, based onall information available to the Director-General at that time.

(2) A public notice of the preliminary determination shallbe issued by the Director-General, which shall set forth insufficient detail the findings and conclusions reached on all

Preliminarywrittenarguments.

Preliminarydetermination.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201823

issues of fact and law considered material, due regard beinggiven to the requirement for protection of confidentialinformation. The notice shall also contain

(a)the names of the known exporters and producers ofthe investigated product;

(b)a description of the investigated product that issufficient for customs purposes, including theharmonized commodity description and codingsystem classification;

(c)the amount of the dumping margin, if any, found toexist and the basis for such determination,including a description of the methodology usedin determining normal value and export price, andany adjustments made in comparing the two;

(d)if the method of comparison provided for insubsection (2) of section 11 of this Act was used,the explanation required by that subsection;

(e)if the Director-General declined to determine anindividual dumping margin on the basis ofvoluntary responses as provided for in subsection(5) of section 13 of this Act, the basis for thatdecision;

(f)the factors that have led to the determination ofinjury and causal link, including information onfactors other than dumped imports that have beentaken into account; and

(g)the amount of any provisional measures to beapplied and the reasons why such provisionalmeasures are necessary to prevent injury beingcaused during the period of the investigation.

24Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(3) The Director-General shall publish the public noticein the Gazette, and in any newspaper widely circulated in SriLanka in all three languages, and a copy of such notice shallbe forwarded to the country or countries exporting theinvestigated product and to any other known partiesinterested.

32.(1) Where the Director-General

(a)accepts a price undertaking under section 44, theDirector-General shall publish a notice to that effectin the Gazette and in any newspaper widelycirculated in Sri Lanka in all three languages; or

(b)refuses to accept a price undertaking under section44, the Director-General shall provide the reasonsfor such refusal and shall give the exporter anopportunity to make any comments thereon.

(2) The public notice of the acceptance of an undertakingshall include the non-confidential part of the undertakingand set forth in sufficient detail the findings and conclusionson all issues of fact and law considered material by theDirector-General, and such notice shall be forwarded to thecountry or countries the products of which are subject tosuch determination, and to any other known partiesinterested.

(3) Where the Director-General continues theinvestigation under section 46 of this Act, he shall publish anotice of the continuation of the investigation, setting forththe proposed date for the final determination, and any othermodifications to the proposed procedure adopted for theconduct of the investigation. Any final determination insuch a continued investigation shall be made within a periodof six months of the date of publication of such notice.

Acceptance of apriceundertaking.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201825

33.(1) Except in the circumstances provided for insection 26, the Director-General shall, during the course ofan investigation, satisfy himself as to the accuracy of theinformation supplied by parties interested upon which hisfindings are based.

(2)For the purpose of verifying information providedor to obtain further information, the Director-General maycarry out investigations in other countries where necessary,with prior consent of the firms concerned, and after notifyingthe representatives of the government of the country inquestion.

(3) The procedures specified in the Second Schedule tothis Act shall apply with regard to the verifications carriedout in the territory of other countries, under subsection (2).

(4) The Director-General shall prepare a report on anyverification conducted under this section, and the reportshall be made available to the company to which it pertains,and a non-confidential version shall be placed in the publicfile kept under section 27.

(5) The Director-General shall make every effort tocomplete any verification, prior to the date of any hearing inthe investigation.

34.(1) In an investigation in which:

(a)no hearing is requested for, a party interested maysubmit written arguments concerning any matter itconsiders relevant to the investigation, not laterthan a period of one and a half months before thedate proposed for the final determination;

(b)a hearing is held, not later than a period of ten daysbefore the scheduled date of the hearing, a partyinterested may submit written submissions concerningany matter it considers relevant to the investigation.

Verification ofinformation.

Writtenarguments.

26Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) Following the hearing, parties interested whoparticipated in the hearing may within a period of ten days,submit further written submissions in response to argumentsand information presented at the hearing.

35.(1) The Director-General shall, upon request madeby a party interested not later than a period of one monthafter the publication of the preliminary determination, fix adate not later a period of than three weeks and not more thana period of one month prior to the date of the proposed dateof the final determination, for the hearing at which all partiesinterested may present information and arguments.

(2) There shall be no obligation on any party interestedto attend a hearing, and failure to do so shall not beprejudicial to that interested partys case. Hearings shall, asfar as possible, be organized by the Director-General so as totake into account the convenience of all the parties interested.

(3) Parties interested intending to appear at the hearing shallnotify the Director-General of the names of representatives andwitnesses who may appear at the hearing, not less than a periodof seven days before the date of the hearing.

(4) Hearings shall be presided over by the Director-General, who shall ensure that confidentiality is preserved,and shall organize the hearing in such manner so as to ensurethat all parties participating have an adequate opportunityto present their views. The Director-General shall maintain arecord of the hearing, which shall be placed in the publicfile, with the exception of any confidential information.

36.(1) The Director-General shall provideopportunities for industrial users of the investigatedproduct in Sri Lanka and for representatives of consumerorganizations, to provide information and submit writtenarguments concerning matters relevant to the investigation,including the economic interest of Sri Lanka, in imposingmeasures.

Hearings.

Contributions byindustrial usersandrepresentativesof consumerorganizations.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201827

(2) All information under this section shall be providedin writing, and the Director-General shall allow industrialusers of the investigated product and representatives ofconsumer organizations, to make oral representations at anyhearing held during the course of an investigation.

37.(1) At least a period of three weeks before theproposed date for the final determination, the Director-General shall, subject to the confidentiality requirementunder section 25, inform all parties interested in writing sentby registered post or by any other means, of the essentialfacts under consideration which shall form the basis for thedecision whether to apply definitive measures.

(2) Parties interested may submit comments in writing byregistered post, if any, on information disclosed to them undersubsection (1), within a period of one week of such disclosure,or in exceptional circumstances, within such extended periodof time as may be determined by the Director-General.

38.(1) The Director-General shall make a finaldetermination of dumping, injury, and causal link, generallywithin a period of six months of the date of the preliminarydetermination, and such final determination shall be basedon all information obtained by the Director-General duringthe course of the investigation that has been disclosed toparties interested, subject to the confidentiality requirementsunder section 25.

(2) Where the final determination demonstrates that thereis dumping and injury is being caused as a result of suchdumping, and taking into consideration among othermatters:

(a)the situation of domestic competition for theproduct under investigation; and

(b)the needs of industrial users and the interest of finalconsumers, where applicable,

Essential facts.

Finaldetermination.

28Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

and where the economic interest of Sri Lanka calls for theimposition of anti-dumping duties, a proposal for adefinitive anti-dumping duty, subject to the provisionsof subsection (4), shall be submitted by the Director-General to the Inter-Ministerial Committee.

(3) It shall be the duty of the Inter-Ministerial Committee toconsider the appropriateness of imposing a definitive anti--dumping duty, and it shall submit its recommendation to theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance through the Minister,within a period of ten working days of receipt of such proposal.

(4) The Director-General shall examine whether a dutyless than the full dumping margin would be adequate toremove the injury to the Sri Lankan industry. Where theDirector-General determines that such a lesser duty wouldbe adequate to remove the injury, the amount of the finalanti-dumping duty imposed shall not exceed that lesserduty.

(5) Where the final determination is that, there is noevidence of dumping and consequently no injury is beingcaused to the Sri Lankan Industry or there is no evidence ofinjury being caused to the Sri Lankan Industry though thereis evidence of dumping, or the Sri Lankan economic interestdoes not call for the imposition of any anti-dumping duties,the Director-General shall immediately terminate theinvestigation.

39.(1) Where the Inter-Ministerial Committeerecommends the imposition of a definitive anti-dumpingduty, the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance inconsultation with the Minister shall, within a period offourteen working days of the date of receipt of therecommendation of the Inter-Ministerial Committee andtaking into consideration the economic interest of Sri Lanka,determine whether or not to adopt a definitive anti-dumpingduty, and the amount of duty to be imposed, if any, providedthat the duty imposed shall not exceed the dumping margin,that was found to exist.

Imposition ofduty and issueof public notice.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201829

(2) The Director-General shall issue a public noticeof:

(a)the final determination (whether affirmative ornegative); and

(b) the amount of duty, if any, imposed by the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance,

which shall be published in the Gazette, and in any newspaperwidely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages.

(3) A report shall be prepared by the Director-General,containing

(a)the final determination, including all relevantinformation on matters of fact and law, and thereasons that have led to such determination, dueregard being given to the requirement for theprotection of confidential information; and

(b)the information referred to in subsection (4) of thissection,

and such report shall be made available for public inspection,and copies thereof may be issued on the payment of suchfee, as may be determined by the Director-General.

(4) The information required under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (3) to be included in the report, shall consist ofthe following:

(a)the names of the known exporters and producers ofthe investigated product;

(b)description of the investigated product that issufficient for customs purposes, including theharmonized commodity description and codingsystem classification;

30Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(c)the amount of the dumping margin, if any found toexist and the basis for such determination,including a description of the methodology usedin determining normal value and export price, andany adjustments made in comparing the two;

(d)if the method of comparison provided for insubsection (2) of section 11 of this Act was used,the explanation required by that subsection;

(e)if the Director-General declined to determine anindividual dumping margin on the basis ofvoluntary responses as provided for in subsection(4) of section 13 of this Act, the basis for thatdecision;

(f)the factors that have led to the determination ofinjury and casual link, including information onfactors other than dumped imports that have beentaken into account;

(g)the reasons for the acceptance or rejection ofrelevant arguments or claims made by exportersand importers;

(h)the amount of any anti-dumping duties, if any,imposed by the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance; and

(i)if final anti-dumping duties are to be collected withregard to the imports to which provisional measureswere applied, the reasons for the decision to do so.

(5) Where, within a period of seven days of making thereport available for public inspection under subsection (3),any party interested brings to the notice of the Director-General any clerical errors appearing in such report, theDirector-General may, where he considers it necessary, rectifysuch error.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201831

(6) A copy each of the notice published under subsection(2) and of the report prepared under subsection (3), shall besent to the country or countries the product of which wassubject to the final determination, and to any other knownparties interested, as may be determined by the Director-General.

40.The Director-General shall, on request made withina period of fifteen days of the publication of the noticeunder subsection (2) of section 39 of this Act, hold separatedisclosure meetings with exporters or producers requestingfor such a meeting, to explain the dumping calculationmethodology finally applied for that exporter or producer.

PROVISIONAL MEASURES

41.(1) Where the Director-General makes an affirmativepreliminary determination of dumping, injury and theexistence of a causal link between the dumping and theinjury, and is of opinion that provisional measures arenecessary to prevent injury being continued during theinvestigation, he shall communicate his opinion to theMinister who shall submit such opinion to the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance shall,in consultation with the Minister, determine whether or notto adopt provisional measures and the amount of provisionalduty to be imposed, if any, and the Director-General shallcause notice of such duty imposed to be published in theGazette and in any newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lankain all three languages.

(3) A negative preliminary determination of dumping shallnot automatically terminate the investigation, but noprovisional measures shall be imposed in such a case.

Disclosure.

Imposition ofprovisionalmeasures.

32Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

42.The provisional duty imposed by the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance under subsection (2) ofsection 41, shall not be greater than the estimated dumpingmargin set forth in the public notice of the preliminarydetermination published under subsection (3) of section 31.

43.(1) Provisional measurers shall not be imposed untilthe expiration of a period of not less than two months fromthe date of initiation of the investigation, and shall generallybe applied for a period not exceeding six months.

(2) The Director-General may, upon a request made inthat behalf by exporters representing a significant percentageof the trade involved, extend the period of application ofthe provisional measures referred to in subsection (1), to aperiod not exceeding nine months.

(3) The provisions of sections 48 and 49 of this Act, shallbe followed mutatis mutandis in the application ofprovisional measures imposed under section 41.

PRICE UNDERTAKINGS

44.(1) The Director-General may suspend aninvestigation without the imposition of provisional measuresor anti-dumping duties, on receipt of satisfactory voluntaryundertakings from any exporter, to revise its prices or tocease exports to the area in question at dumped prices, andthe Director-General is satisfied that the injurious effect ofthe dumping is eliminated.

(2) Any price increases imposed as a result of anundertaking given under subsection (1), shall not be higherthan what is necessary to eliminate the dumping margin andwhere the Director-General determines in the interest of thenational economy, that a lesser price increase would beadequate to remove the injury to the Sri Lankan industry,the price increase imposed may be less than the dumpingmargin.

Amount ofprovisional dutyto be imposed.

Duration ofapplication ofprovisionalmeasures.

Undertakingsrelating to priceundertakings.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201833

(3) Price undertaking for the purpose of subsection (1)may be suggested by the Director-General, but no exportershall be forced to enter into such an undertaking.

(4) The fact that exporters do not offer any priceundertakings, or do not accept an invitation to do so, shallin no way prejudice the consideration of the case, but theDirector-General shall be free to determine that a threat ofinjury is more likely to be realized, if the dumped importscontinue.

(5) Except in exceptional circumstances, a priceundertaking under subsection (1) may be offered by anyexporter at any time not less than a period of two monthsbefore the proposed date of the final determination.

45.(1) The Director-General shall not seek to suggestor accept any price undertakings from exporters, until apreliminary affirmative determination is made of dumping,injury, and causal link.

(2) Undertakings offered may not be accepted by theDirector-General, if he considers their acceptance impracticalsuch as, if the number of actual or potential exporters is toogreat, or for any other reasons, including reasons of generalpolicy.

(3) Where the Director-General decides not to accept anundertaking, he shall provide to the exporter the reasonswhich have led to consider the acceptance of an undertakingas inappropriate, and grant to such exporter an opportunityto make written comments thereon.

(4) The Director-General may require any exporter fromwhom an undertaking have been accepted, to provideperiodically, information relevant to the fulfillment of suchundertakings, and to permit verification of the informationso provided. The communication of these data shall besubject to the provisions of section relating to

Conditions foracceptance ofpriceundertakings.

34Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

confidentiality. Failure to provide information requestedby the Director-General may be deemed to be a violation ofthe undertaking.

(5) Price undertakings offered shall be enforced in suchmanner and following such procedure as shall be prescribed.

46.(1) Notwithstanding the acceptance of one or moreundertakings, the Director-General shall, where an exporterso desires or the Director-General so decides, complete theinvestigation of dumping and injury.

(2) In a case where the Director-General completes theinvestigation under subsection (1) and

(a)the Director-General makes a negativedetermination of dumping or injury, theundertakings shall automatically lapse, except incases where such a determination is due in largepart to the existence of such undertakings, and theDirector-General may require that an undertakingbe maintained for a reasonable period of time asshall be determined by him;

(b)the Director-General makes an affirmativedetermination of dumping and injury, theundertaking shall stand modified to the extent ofthe determination.

47.Where an undertaking given under section 44 isviolated, the Director-General may, in compliance with theprovisions of this Act, take all necessary steps as may benecessary for the imposition of provisional measures, usingthe best information available. In such cases, definitive dutiesmay be levied in accordance with this Act on goods importedfor consumption not more than a period of three monthsbefore the application of such provisional measures, exceptthat any such assessment shall not apply to imports enteredbefore the violation of the undertaking.

Completion oftheinvestigation.

Violation ofundertakings.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201835

IMPOSITION AND COLLECTION OF ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES

48.(1) Anti-dumping duties shall take the form ofad valorem or specific duties, and shall be imposed inaddition to other import duties levied on the importedproducts concerned.

(2) Anti-Dumping duties shall be collected by theDirector-General of Customs and the provisions of theCustoms Ordinance relating to collection of duties, shallmutatis mutandis apply to and in relation to the same.

(3) Except in the circumstances provided for in subsection(4), the Director-General shall establish an individual anti-dumping duty for each known exporter or producer ofdumped imports concerned.

(4) When the Director-General has limited theexamination in accordance with the provisions of subsections(2) and (3) of section 13 of this Act, any anti-dumping dutyapplied to imports from exporters or producers not includedin the examination, shall not exceed the weighted averagedumping margin established with respect to the selectedexporters or producers, provided that the Director-Generalshall disregard for the purpose of this subsection, any zeroor de minimis margins and margins established under thecircumstances referred to in section 26.

(5) Except as otherwise provided for in subsections (4)and (5) of section 13 of this Act, the Director-General shallapply individual duties to imports from any exporter orproducer not included in the examination who has providedthe necessary information during the course of theinvestigation.

(6) The Minister in charge of the subject of Finance mayapply an anti-dumping duty rate for imports from exportersand producers not known to the Director-General at the timethe final determination was made. Such anti-dumping dutyrate shall not exceed the weighted average of the individual

Imposition andcollection ofanti-dumpingduties.

36Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

dumping margins established for exporters and producersexamined during the investigation, excluding marginsestablished under the circumstance referred to in section 26of this Act.

49.(1) An importer shall be granted a refund of theduties collected by the Director-General of Customs, wherethe Director-General determines that the dumping margin,on the basis of which duties were paid, has been eliminatedor reduced to a level which is below the level of the duty inforce.

(2) The importer shall submit an application to theDirector-General for the refund of anti-dumping dutiescollected within any period of six months, within a periodof two months of the end of that period. The applicationshall contain information on the amount of refund of anti-dumping duties claimed for the period, and all customsdocumentation relating to the calculation and payment ofsuch amount. It shall also include evidence of normal valueand export prices to Sri Lanka, for the exporter or the producerto which the duty applies.

(3) In any case where the importer is not associated withthe producer or exporter and the information referred to insubsection (2) is not immediately available, or where theproducer or the exporter is unwilling to release it to theimporter, the application shall contain a statement from theproducer or exporter that the dumping margin has beenreduced or eliminated, and that the relevant supportingevidence shall be directly provided to the Director-General.Where such evidence is not forthcoming from the exporteror producer within a reasonable period of time, theapplication shall be rejected.

(4) In investigating an application for a refund, theDirector-General shall apply the relevant provisions of thisAct relating to the conduct of an investigation, to hisdetermination. In particular when determining whether and

Refund of dutiespaid in excess ofthe dumpingmargin.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201837

to what extent a refund should be made when the exportprice is contracted on the basis of the price at which theimported products are first resold to an independent buyerdue to the absence of export price, or because it appears thatthe export price is unreliable in terms of subsection (2) ofsection 9, the Director-General shall take account of anychange in normal value, any change of costs incurredbetween importation and resale, and any movement in theresale price which is duly reflected in subsequent sellingprices, and shall calculate the export price with no deductionfor the amount of anti-dumping duties paid, when satisfactoryevidence of the above is provided.

(5) The Director-General shall provide the importermaking the request, with a detailed explanation of the reasonsfor the determination concerning the request for refund.

(6) Refunds of duties shall generally take place within aperiod of twelve months and in no case more than a periodof eighteen months after the date on which an applicationfor a refund was made. Any refund authorized, shall be madeby the Director-General of Customs within a period of threemonths of the determination to grant a refund. Theobservance of the time-limits mentioned in this subsectionmay not be possible where the determination to apply theduties in question is subject to a judicial review proceeding.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, thetime limits referred to herein, may not be strictly adhered towhere as a result of the subject matter being judiciallyreviewed, such adherence is not possible.

50.(1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2), theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance may, inconsultation with the Director-General and upon therecommendations of the Inter-Ministerial Committee,suspend the application of provisional measures or anti-dumping duties imposed under this Act for a specifiedperiod.

Suspension.

38Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) The decision to suspend the application of provisionalmeasures or anti-dumping duties shall be arrived at, havingtaken into consideration the interest of the national economy,and

(a)subsequent to an examination of such factors,including market conditions, as the Minister mayprescribe in consultation with the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance; and

(b)having given an opportunity to the Sri Lankanindustry to comment on the issue.

RETROACTIVITY

51.Except as provided for in sections 47, 52 and 53 ofthis Act, provisional measures and anti-dumping duties shallonly be applied to products which enter into Sri Lanka forconsumption, on or after the date of the publication of anaffirmative preliminary or final determination in aninvestigation conducted under the preceding provisions ofthis Act, or a review carried under sections 57 to 59 of thisAct.

52.A definitive anti-dumping duty may be collected onproducts which were entered for consumption not more than aperiod of three months prior to the date of application ofprovisional measures, where the Director-General determines,in regard to the dumped product in question, that

(a)there is a history of dumping which caused injuryor that the importer was, or should have been, awarethat the exporter practices dumping and that suchdumping would cause injury; and

(b)the injury is caused by massive dumped imports ofa product in a relatively short time, which in thelight of the timing and the volume of the dumped

Principle ofretroactivity.

Retroactiveapplication ofdefinitive dutiesin certaincircumstances.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201839

imports and other circumstances (such as a rapidbuild-up of inventories of the imported product) islikely to seriously undermine the remedial effect ofthe definitive anti-dumping duty to be applied,provided that the importers concerned have beengiven an opportunity to comment.

53.(1) Where the Director-General makes a finaldetermination of injury (but not of a threat thereof or ofmaterial retardation of the establishment of an industry) or,in the case of a final determination of a threat of injury,where the Director-General considers that the effect of thedumped imports would, in the absence of the provisionalmeasures, have led to a determination of injury, definitiveanti-dumping duties may be levied retroactively for theperiod for which provisional measures, if any, have beenapplied.

(2) Where the definitive anti-dumping duty is higher thanthe amount estimated for the purpose of the provisionalmeasure, the difference shall not be collected, but where thedefinitive duty is lower than the amount estimated for thepurpose of the security, the difference shall be reimbursed.

(3) Except as provided for in subsection (1), where theDirector-General makes a determination of threat of injuryor material retardation (but no injury has yet occurred) adefinitive anti-dumping duty may be imposed only fromthe date of the determination of threat of injury or materialretardation. Any provisional duty paid shall be reimbursedwithin a period of one and a half months.

(4) Where the Director-General makes a negative finaldetermination, any provisional duty paid during the periodof application shall be reimbursed within a period of oneand a half months.

Definitivecollection ofprovisionalduties.

40Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

TERMINATION WITHOUT ADOPTION OF MEASURES

54.(1) An investigation shall be terminated at any time,where the Director-General is satisfied that there is notsufficient evidence of either dumping or injury, to justifyproceeding with the investigation.

(2) The Director-General shall terminate an investigation,if he determines that the dumping margin is de minimis, orthat the volume of dumped imports, whether actual orpotential, or the injury, is negligible.

(3) For the purpose of subsection (2)

(a)the dumping margin shall be considered to bede minimis if the margin is less than two percentum, expressed as a percentage of the exportprice; and

(b)the volume of dumped imports shall generallybe regarded as negligible, if the volume ofdumped imports of the investigated productfrom a particular country is found to accountfor less than three per centum of total importsof the investigated and like product in SriLanka, unless imports of the investigatedproduct from all countries under investigationwhich individually account for less than threeper centum of the total imports of theinvestigated and like product in Sri Lanka,collectively account for more than seven percentum of imports of the investigated and likeproduct in Sri Lanka.

55.The Director-General shall, with due regard beingpaid to the requirement for the protection of confidentialinformation, issue a public notice of the conclusion of aninvestigation without imposition of measures, which shallset forth in sufficient detail the findings and conclusions

Termination forinsufficientevidence,de minimisdumping marginor negligiblevolume.

Public notice ofconclusion of aninvestigationwithoutimposition ofmeasures.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201841

reached on all issues of fact and law considered material bythe Director-General, including the matters of fact and lawwhich have led to arguments being accepted or rejected, asthe case may be.

DURATION AND REVIEW OF ANTI-DUMPING DUTIES AND PRICE

UNDERTAKINGS

56.(1) An anti-dumping duty shall remain in force aslong as, and to the extent necessary, to counteract dumpingwhich is causing injury.

(2) Any definitive anti-dumping duty shall standterminated on a date not later than a period of five yearsfrom its imposition or from the date of the most recent reviewunder section 57, if that review has covered both dumpingand injury.

(3) The Director-General shall, not later than a period ofthree months preceding the date of expiry of the definitiveanti-dumping duty, publish a notice in the Gazette and in anynewspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all three languages,of the impending expiry of any anti-dumping duty. A definitiveduty, however, may not expire, if the Director-Generaldetermines, in a review initiated before the date of expiry onhis own initiative, or upon a duly substantiated request madeby or on behalf of the Sri Lankan industry within a period ofone and a half months from the public notice of impendingtermination of the definitive anti-dumping duties concerned,that the expiry of the duty would be likely to lead to acontinuation or recurrence of dumping and injury. The dutymay remain in force pending the outcome of such a review.

57.(1) The Director-General shall, where it is warranted,review the need for the continued imposition of the anti-dumping duty on his own initiative or, where a reasonableperiod of time has elapsed since the imposition of thedefinitive anti-dumping duty, upon a written requestsubmitted by any party interested, which contains positiveinformation substantiating the need for a review.

Duration of ananti-dumpingduty.

Review forchange ofcircumstances.

42Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) The Director-General shall, upon initiation of a reviewunder subsection (1), publish a notice in the Gazette and inany newspaper widely circulated in Sri Lanka in all threelanguages, of the initiation of such a review.

(3) In conducting a review under this section, theDirector-General shall, upon request made by a partyinterested, examine whether

(a)the continued imposition of the duty is necessaryto offset dumping;

(b)the injury would be likely to continue or recur, ifthe duty were removed or varied; or

(c)both events are happening.

(4) Where, as a result of a review under this section, theDirector-General determines that the anti-dumping duty isno longer warranted, the Director-General shall recommendto the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance that suchduty be terminated immediately.

58.(1) Where a product is subject to definitive anti-dumping duties, the Director-General shall promptly carryout a review for the purpose of determining individualdumping margins for any exporters or producers in theexporting country concerned who did not export the productto Sri Lanka during the period of investigation, provided,such exporters or producers may show that they are not relatedto any of the exporters or producers in the exporting countrywho are subject to the anti-dumping duties on the importedinvestigated product. Such a review shall be initiated withina period of one month following the date of receipt of theapplication by the producer or exporter concerned.

(2) A review under subsection (1) shall generally be completedwithin a period of six months from its initiation and, in anyevent, a period not later than twelve months of its initiation.

Newcomerreview.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201843

(3) No anti-dumping duty shall be levied on imports fromsuch exporters or producers at whose instigation a review isbeing carried out under subsection (1), while the review isbeing carried on. The Director-General may, however, requestguarantees in the amount of the residual anti-dumping dutyrate, as determined under subsection (6) of section 48 of thisAct, in order to ensure that, should such a review result in adetermination of dumping in respect of such producers orexporters, anti-dumping duties can be levied retroactivelyto the date of the initiation of the review.

59. The provisions of

(a)sections 56 and 57 of this Act shall apply, mutatismutandis, to price undertakings accepted under theprovisions of sections 44 to 47 of this Act;

(b)sections 21, 25, 26, 27, 29, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37,38, 39 and 40 of this Act shall apply, mutatismutandis, to any review carried out under this Partof this Act; and

(c)section 22 of this Act shall apply to any reviewconducted under sections 56 and 57 of this Actwhich shall be carried out expeditiously and beconcluded within a period of twelve months of thedate of initiation of the review.

ANTI-CIRCUMVENTION

60.(1) Where an article subject to anti-dumping dutyis imported into Sri Lanka from any country including thecountry of origin or country of export notified for the purposesof levy of anti-dumping duty, in an unassembled, unfinishedor incomplete form and is assembled, finished or completed

Duration andreview ofundertakings.

Circumventionof anti-dumpingduty.

44Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

in Sri Lanka or in such country, such assembly, finishing orcompletion shall be considered to circumvent the anti-dumping duty in force if, -

(a)the operation started or increased after, or just priorto, the anti-dumping investigations and the partsand components are imported from the country oforigin or country of export notified for purposes oflevy of anti-dumping duty; and

(b)the value consequent to assembly, finishing orcompletion operation is less than thirty-five percentum of the cost of assembled, finished orcompleted article.

(2) Where an article subject to anti-dumping duty isimported into Sri Lanka from country of origin or country ofexport notified for the levy of anti-dumping duty after beingsubjected to any process involving alteration of thedescription, name or composition of an article, such alterationshall be considered to circumvent the anti-dumping duty inforce, if the alteration of the description, name or compositionof the article subject to anti-dumping duty results in thearticle being altered in form or appearance even in minorforms regardless of the variation of tariff classification, ifany.

(3) Where an article subject to anti-dumping duty isimported into Sri Lanka through exporters or producers orcountry not subject to anti-dumping duty, such exports shallbe considered to circumvent the anti-dumping duty in force,if the exporters or producers notified for the levy of anti-dumping duty change their trade practice, pattern of trade orchannels of sales of the article in order to have their productsexported to Sri Lanka through exporters or producers orcountry not subject to anti-dumping duty.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201845

61.(1) Except as provided herein below, the Director-General may initiate an investigation to determine theexistence and effect of any alleged circumvention of theanti-dumping duty levied under section 2(1) of the Act, uponreceipt of a written application by or on behalf of the SriLankan industry.

(2) The application shall, inter-alia, contain sufficientevidence as regards the existence of the circumstances tojustify initiation of an anti-circumvention investigation.

(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection(1), the Director-General may initiate an investigation onhis own initiative, if he is satisfied from information receivedfrom any party interested that sufficient evidence exists asto the existence of the circumstances pointing tocircumvention of anti-dumping duty in force.

(4) The Director-General may initiate an investigation todetermine the existence and effect of any allegedcircumvention of the anti-dumping duty in force, where heis satisfied that imports of the article circumventing an anti-dumping duty in force are found to be dumped:

Provided that, the Director-General shall notify thegovernment of the exporting country before proceeding toinitiate such an investigation.

(5) The provisions regarding the conduct of anti-dumpinginvestigations under this Act shall apply mutatis mutandisto any investigation carried out under this section.

(6) Any such investigation shall be concluded within aperiod of twelve months and in no case more than a periodof eighteen months of the date of initiation of investigationfor reasons to be recorded in writing by the Director-General.

Initiation ofinvestigation todeterminecircumvention.

46Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

62.(1) The Director-General, upon determination thatcircumvention of anti-dumping duty exists, may recommendto the Inter-Ministerial Committee the imposition of anti-dumping duty to imports of articles found to becircumventing an existing anti-dumping duty or to importsof articles originating in or exported from countries otherthan those which are already notified for the purpose of levyof the anti-dumping duty and such levy may applyretrospectively from the date of initiation of the investigationunder section 61.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Inter-Ministerial Committeeto consider the appropriateness of the recommendation ofthe Director-General under subsection (1), and it shall submitits recommendation to the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance through the Minister, within a period of tenworking days of receipt of such recommendation.

63.(1) The Director-General may review the need forthe continued imposition of the duty, where warranted, onhis own initiative or a reasonable period of time has elapsedsince the imposition of the measures, upon request made byany party interested which submits positive informationsubstantiating the need for the review.

(2) Any review initiated under subsection (1) shall beconcluded within a period not exceeding twelve monthsfrom the date of initiation of review.

PART II

COUNTERVAILING DUTIES

64.(1) Countervailing duties may be imposed onproducts imported into Sri Lanka, where the Director-Generaldetermines, pursuant to an investigation initiated andconducted in accordance with the provisions of this Act,that

(a)a prohibited subsidy or an actionable subsidy withinthe meaning of this Act is being provided withrespect to the investigated product;

Review ofcircumvention.

Circumstances inwhich acountervailingduty may beimposed.

DeterminationofCircumvention.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201847

(b)there is injury being caused to the Sri Lankanindustry; and

(c)there exists a causal link between the subsidizedimports and the injury caused.

(2) Where imports of like products from more than onecountry are the subject of simultaneous countervailing dutyinvestigations, the Director-General may, for the purpose ofdetermining whether injury exists, cumulatively assess theeffects of such subsidized imports on the Sri Lankan industry,only if

(a)the applications are filed under section 14 of thisAct;

(b)the Director-General determines that the amount ofcountervailable subsidization established inrelation to the imports from each country is morethan de minimis as specified in section 74 and thevolume of imports from each country is notnegligible as specified in section 74; and

(c)the Director-General determines that a cumulativeassessment of the effects of the imports isappropriate in the light of the conditions ofcompetition between the imported products, andthe conditions of competition between the importedproducts and the domestic like products.

65.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 64 of thisAct, a subsidy may be subject to a countervailing duty, if itis

(a)a prohibited subsidy; or

(b)an actionable subsidy.

When may asubsidy besubject to acountervailingduty.

48Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) A subsidy shall not be subject to a countervailingduty and be considered a non-actionable subsidy within themeaning of this Act, where the Director-General determinesthat, such subsidy is

(a)not specific within the meaning of section 66 ofthis Act; or

(b)a subsidy referred to in the Third Schedule to thisAct.

(3) A prohibited subsidy shall be deemed to be specificin terms of section 66 of this Act.

66.(1) In order to determine whether for the purpose ofsubsection (1) of section 65 of this Act, a subsidy is specificto an enterprise or industry or group of enterprises orindustries (referred to in this section as certain enterprises)within the jurisdiction of authority granting it, the followingprinciples shall apply:

(a)where the granting authority or the legislationpursuant to which the granting authorityoperates,explicitly limits access to a subsidy tocertain enterprises, such subsidy shall be specific;

(b)where the granting authority or the legislationpursuant to which the granting authority operates,establishes objective criteria or conditionsgoverning the eligibility for and the amount of asubsidy, specificity shall not exist, provided thatthe eligibility is automatic and that such criteriaand conditions are strictly adhered to and are clearlyspelt out in that legislation or other officialdocument, so as to be capable of verification;and

(c)if, notwithstanding any appearance of non-specificity resulting from the application of the

Specificity andcontingency ofsubsidy.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201849

principles laid down in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b)of this subsection, there are reasons to believe thatthe subsidy may in fact be specific, the followingfactors may be considered:

(i) use of a subsidy programme by a limitednumber of certain enterprises, predominantuse by certain enterprises, the granting ofdisproportionately large amounts of subsidyto certain enterprises, and the manner in whichdiscretion has been exercised by the grantingauthority in the decision to grant a subsidy;and

(ii) account shall be taken of the extent ofdiversification of economic activities withinthe jurisdiction of the granting authority, aswell as of the length of time during which thesubsidy programme has been in operation.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (b) of subsection (1),objective criteria or conditions means, criteria or conditionswhich are neutral, which do not favour certain enterprisesover others, and which are economic in nature and horizontalin application, such as the number of employees or the sizeof the enterprise.

(3) The setting or change of generally applicable tax rates,shall not be deemed to be a specific subsidy.

(4) A subsidy which is limited to certain enterpriseslocated within a designated geographical region within thejurisdiction of the authority granting the subsidy shall bedeemed to be a specific subsidy.

(5) Any determination of specificity under this sectionshall be established on the basis of positive evidence.

50Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

67.(1) In determining what amounts to the conferringof a benefit for the purpose of a subsidy as defined insection 85 of this Act, the Director-General shall have regardto the following guidelines:

(a)government provision of equity capital shall notbe considered as conferring a benefit, unless theinvestment decision can be regarded as inconsistentwith the usual investment practice, including theprovision of risk capital, of private investors in theterritory of that country;

(b)a loan by a government shall not be considered asconferring a benefit, unless there is a differencebetween the amount that the firm receiving the loanpays on the government loan, and the amount thefirm would pay on a comparable commercial loanwhich the firm could actually obtain on the market,in which case the benefit shall be the differencebetween these two amounts;

(c)a loan guaranteed by a government shall not beconsidered as conferring a benefit, unless there is adifference between the amount that the firmreceiving the guarantee pays on a loan guaranteedby the government, and the amount that the firmwould pay on a comparable commercial loanwithout that government guarantee, in which casethe benefit shall be the difference between thesetwo amounts adjusted for any differences in fees;and

(d)the provision of goods or services or purchase ofgoods by a government shall not be considered asconferring a benefit, unless the provision is madefor less than adequate remuneration, or the purchaseis made for more than adequate remuneration.

Determinationof benefit by thegrant of asubsidy.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201851

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (1),the adequacy of remuneration shall be determined in relationto prevailing market conditions for the goods or services inquestion in the country of provision or purchase, includingprice, quality, availability, marketability, transportation andother conditions of purchase or sale.

68.(1) The Director-General shall subject to theprovisions of subsection (4), submit through the Minister, aproposal to the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance,relating to the application of an individual countervailingduty rate for each known exporter or producer concerned, ofthe investigated product that has been individuallyinvestigated.

(2) Where the number of exporters, producers, importersor types of the investigated product is so large as to make itimpracticable to individually examine each party interestedor all the investigated products for the purpose of subsection(1), the Director-General may limit the examination eitherto a reasonable number of parties interested or investigatedproducts, by using samples which are statistically valid onthe basis of information available to the Director-General atthe time of the selection, or to the largest percentage of thevolume of the exports from the country in question whichcan reasonably be investigated.

(3) Any selection of exporters, producers, importers ortypes of investigated products made under subsection (2),shall preferably be chosen in consultation with and theconsent of the exporters, producers or importers concerned.

(4) Where a limited examination is carried out undersubsections (2) and (3), the Director-General shall apply toany exporter or producer not included in the investigation,a rate that is equal to the weighted average of the individualcountervailing duty rates established for all exporters andproducers individually examined, provided that, theDirector-General shall disregard for the purpose of thissubsection, any zero or countervailable subsidy consideredto be de minimis.

Establishing thecountervailingduty rate.

52Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

INITIATION, CONDUCT AND CONCLUSION OFINVESTIGATION AND REVIEW

69.In regard to the initiation of a countervailing dutyinvestigation under this Part of this Act, the provisions ofsections 14 to 22 (inclusive of both sections) of this Act,shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in relation to the same,subject to the following modifications:

(a)before initiating a countervailing duty investigationand throughout the conduct of the investigation,the Director-General shall provide any interestedforeign government, an opportunity forconsultation for the purpose of clarifying anymatters that shall be relevant to the investigationand arriving at a mutually agreed solution;

(b)a consultation under paragraph (a) shall not in anyway impede the Director-General from proceedingwith the conduct of the investigation, or reaching aprovisional or final determination, in relation tothe same; and

(c)the requirement of notifying the government ofeach exporting country of a decision to initiate aninvestigation, where the application fulfills therelevant requirement as provided for in subsection(2) of section 16, shall not be applicable to aninvestigation initiated under this Part of this Act.

70.In regard to the conduct and conclusion of aninvestigation under this part of this Act, including theimposition of provisional measures, the provisions of sections23 to 43 (inclusive of both sections) of this Act, shall mutatismutandis apply to and in relation to the same, subject to thefollowing modifications:

(a)the requirement under section 29 of this Act ofsending questionnaires upon the initiation of an

Initiation ofinvestigationunder this Partof the Act.

Conduct andconclusion of aninvestigationunder this Partof this Act.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201853

investigation, shall in the case of an investigationunder this Part of this Act, also include the sendingof such questionnaire to interested members orparties interested;

(b)the provisional measures imposed under section41 of this Act, shall, in the case of an investigationunder this Part of this Act, take the form of cashdeposits or bonds equal to the amount of theprovisionally calculated amount of subsidization;

(c)the duration of the application of any provisionalmeasures imposed as referred to in subsection (1) ofsection 43 of this Act, shall, in the case of provisionalmeasures imposed in an investigation under this Partof this Act, not exceed a period of four months; and

(d)the provisions of subsection (2) of section 43relating to the granting of an extension of the periodof the application of provisional measures imposed,shall not apply to an investigation under this Partof this Act.

71.(1) The Director-General may suspend aninvestigation under this Part of this Act, without theimposition of provisional measures, on receipt of satisfactoryvoluntary undertakings from the government granting thesubsidy or the exporter concerned, that

(a)the government granting the subsidy agrees toeliminate or limit the subsidy or take other measuresconcerning its effects; or

(b)the exporter concerned agrees to revise its prices sothat the injurious effects caused by the granting ofthat subsidy is eliminated.

Priceundertakings.

54Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(2) Any price increases imposed as a result of anundertaking given under paragraph (b) of subsection (1),shall not be higher than necessary to eliminate the amountof the subsidy and preferably be less than the amount of thesubsidy, if such price increase imposed is adequate to removethe injury caused to the Sri Lankan industry.

(3) Price undertakings for the purpose of subsection (1)may be suggested by the Director-General, but, the exporterconcerned shall not be forced to enter into suchundertakings.

(4) The fact that exporter concerned does not offer anyprice undertakings or does not accept an invitation to do so,shall in no way prejudice the consideration of the case, butthe Director-General shall be free to determine that a threatof injury to the Sri Lankan industry is more likely to berealized, if the subsidized imports continue.

72.In regard to the conditions of acceptance ofvoluntary undertakings from an exporter under section 71of this Act, and the consequences of such an acceptance, theprovisions of sections 45 to 47 (inclusive both sections) ofthis Act, shall, mutatis mutandis apply to and in relation tothe same.

73.(1) In regard to the imposition and collection ofcountervailing duties, retroactivity, termination ofinvestigations, duration and review of countervailing dutiesand voluntary undertakings, in an investigation under thisPart of this Act, the provisions of sections 48 to 57 (inclusiveof both sections) and section 59 of this Act, other than theprovisions of section 54, shall mutatis mutandis apply toand in relation to the same.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),where a countervailing duty has been imposed on productsexported by an exporter who was not included in aninvestigation carried under this Part of this Act, (for a

Consequences ofvoluntaryundertakingsundersection 71.

Imposition andcollection ofcountervailingduties etc. underthis Part of thisAct.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201855

reason other than the refusal to co-operate), the Director-General shall immediately initiate and promptly review aninvestigation under this Part of this Act and the provisionsof section 58 of this Act shall mutatis mutandis apply to andin relation to the same.

74.An investigation under this part of this Act shall beterminated at any time, where the Director-Generaldetermines that:

(a)the amount of countervailable subsidy is de minimisor that the volume of subsidized import, actual orpotential, or its injury being caused to the Sri Lankanindustry, is negligible; or

(b)there is not sufficient evidence to justify continuingwith the investigation.

75.(1) Where the Director-General on his own motionor on information provided by any party interested, hasreason to believe that a prohibited or actionable subsidy isbeing granted or maintained by a Member in respect of aproduct being exported to Sri Lanka, the Director-Generalshall bring such information to the notice of the Minister.

(2) The Minister may, without prejudice to any otheraction that may be taken in terms of this Act, request suchMember who is alleged to be granting the prohibited oractionable subsidy, for a consultation with a view toclarifying the situation relating to the same and arriving at amutually acceptable solution, provided, however, that ahearing shall be afforded to the Sri Lankan Industry prior tofinalizing any such solution.

(3) Any investigation commenced under Part II of thisAct may be terminated upon a solution being arrived at undersubsection (2). Provided, however, that no suchinvestigations shall be suspended or terminated merely bythe request for or commencement of any consultation undersubsection (2).

Termination forinsufficientevidence of aninvestigationunder this Partof this Act.

Consultations.

56Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(4) A request made for a consultation under subsection(1) shall be accompanied by a statement containing all theavailable evidence with regard to the existence of suchprohibited or actionable subsidy and the nature of suchsubsidy.

PART III

GENERAL

76.(1) A determination of injury for the purposes ofparagraph (b) of section 2 and paragraph (b) of subsection (1)of section 64 of this Act, shall be based on positive evidenceand would involve an objective examination of

(a)the volume of the dumped or subsidized importsand the effect of the dumped or subsidized importson prices in the domestic market for like products;and

(b)the consequent impact of these imports on domesticproducers of such like products.

(2) In examining the impact of the subsidized or dumpedimports on the Sri Lankan industry, the Director-Generalshall base his examination on an evaluation of all relevanteconomic factors and indices having a bearing on the stateof such industry, including:

(a)the actual and potential decline in output, sales,market share, profits, productivity, returns oninvestments or utilization of capacity;

(b)the factors affecting domestic prices;

(c)the magnitude of the dumping margin in the caseof an anti-dumping investigation;

Determinationof injury.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201857

(d)the actual and potential negative effects on cashflow, inventories, employment, wages, growth orability to raise capital or investment; and

(e)in the case of a countervailing duty investigationinvolving agriculture, whether there has been anincreased burden on government supportprogrammes.

(3) The factors and indices listed in subsection (2) shallnot be considered as exhaustive, nor shall any such factor orindex be necessarily conclusive.

77.(1) In order to determine for the purpose of paragraph(c) of section 2 or paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section64 of this Act, whether there exists a causal link between theinjury caused to the Sri Lankan industry by the investigatedproduct and the dumping or the granting of a countervailablesubsidy, as the case may be, the Director-General shallconsider among other factors, whether:

(a)there has been a significant increase in dumped orsubsidized imports in absolute terms or relative, toproduction or consumption in Sri Lanka;

(b)there has been significant price undercutting bydumped or subsidized imports, as compared withthe price of the domestic like product; and

(c)the effect of the dumped or subsidized imports issuch as to depress prices to a significant degree, orto prevent price increases which would otherwisehave occurred to a significant degree.

(2) The Director-General shall assess the effect of thedumped or subsidized imports in relation to the domesticproduction of the like product, where available data permitsthe separate identification of the production in accordancewith such criteria, as the production process, producers salesand profits.

Causation.

58Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(3) If the separate identification of the production is notpossible, the Director-General shall assess the effects of thedumped or subsidized imports by examining the productionof the narrowest group or range of products, which includesthe domestic like product, for which necessary informationcan be provided.

(4) In relation to an anti-dumping investigation, thedemonstration of a causal link between the dumped importsand the injury to the Sri Lankan Industry shall be based onan examination of all relevant evidence before the Director-General.

(5) The Director-General shall also examine any otherknown factors, other than the dumped or subsidized importswhich, at the same time, are injuring the Sri Lankan industry.

(6) Factors that may be considered by the Director-Generalunder subsection (5) may include, inter alia:

(a)the volume and prices of non-subsidized importsof the goods in question or of imports not sold atdumping prices;

(b)contraction in demand or changes in the patterns ofconsumption;

(c)trade restrictive practices of, and competitionbetween, the foreign and Sri Lankan producers;

(d)developments in technology; and

(e)the export performance and productivity of the SriLankan industry.

(7) Injury to the Sri Lankan industry caused by factorsother than the dumped or subsidized imports shall not beattributed to the dumped or subsidized imports.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201859

78.(1) For the purpose of this Act, a determination ofthreat of material injury to the Sri Lankan industry shall bebased on facts, and not merely on allegation, conjecture orremote possibility, and the change in circumstances whichwould create a situation in which the dumped or subsidizedproducts would cause injury, shall be clearly foreseen andimminent.

(2) In determining whether a threat of material injuryexists, the Director-General shall consider with special careamongst others, factors such as:-

(a)a significant rate of increase of dumped orsubsidized imports into the Sri Lankan market,indicating the likelihood of substantially increasedimportation;

(b)sufficient freely disposable, or an imminentsubstantial increase in, capacity of the exporterindicating the likelihood of substantially increaseddumped or subsidized exports to the Sri Lankanmarket, taking into account the availability of otherexport markets to absorb any additional exports;

(c)whether the imported products are entering at pricesthat will have a significant depressing orsuppressing effect on Sri Lankan prices, and wouldlikely increase demand for further imports;

(d)inventories of the products being investigated; and

(e)in the case of a countervailing duty investigation,the nature of the subsidy or subsidies in question,and the trade effects likely to arise therefrom.

(3) None of the factors referred in subsection (2) by itselfshall be considered as necessarily giving any decisiveguidance, but the totality of the factors considered shalllead to the conclusion that further imports of the dumped orsubsidized products are imminent and that, unless protectiveaction is taken, injury would occur.

Threat ofmaterial injury.

60Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

79.(1) A determination of material retardation to theestablishment of Sri Lankan industry, for the purposes ofthis Act, shall be based on a determination by the Director-General that -

(a)the Sri Lankan industry producing the like products,is in the process of being established;

(b)such an industry is viable;

(c)the establishment of such an industry is imminent;and

(d)the dumped or subsidized imports are, through theeffects of the dumping or countervailable subsidy,materially retarding the establishment of such anindustry.

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), the Director-Generalshall consider, amongst others, factors such as feasibilitystudies, negotiated loans and contracts for the purchase ofmachinery aimed at new investment projects or theexpansion of existing plants, and whether there has beensignificant investment for the establishment of such anindustry.

80.Information gathered by any person in the courseof an investigation conducted under this Act, or thereafter,which is entitled to be treated as confidential informationunder subsection (2) of section 25, shall be subject to theprovisions of Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016.

81. Any party interested who participated in aninvestigation, review or refund procedure under this Act,may seek judicial review of action in terms of Article 140 ofthe Constitution.

Materialretardation.

Confidentialinformation notto be disclosed.

Judicial review.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201861

82.(1) The Inter-Ministerial Committee to beconstituted for the purpose of this Act shall, subject to theprovisions of subsection (2), consist of the followingmembers:

(a)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister, whoshall be the Chairman of the Inter-MinisterialCommittee;

(b)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance or his designatednominee;

(c)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Industrial Development orhis designated nominee;

(d)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Internal Trade or hisdesignated nominee;

(e)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Agriculture or hisdesignated nominee;

(f)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Foreign Affairs or hisdesignated nominee;

(g)Director General of Customs or his designatednominee; and

(h)a nominee of the Governor of the Central Bank ofSri Lanka.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1),where, considering the nature of the proposal beingsubmitted for his consideration under this Act, the Chairmanmay, in consultation with the members referred to in

Constitution ofthe Inter-MinisterialCommittee.

62Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1), where he considersit appropriate, co-opt not more than two other members tothe Inter-Ministerial Committee.

(3) The Chairman shall, if present, preside at all meetingsof the Inter-Ministerial Committee, and in the absence ofthe Chairman from any such meeting, the members presentshall nominate one of the members present to preside atsuch meeting.

(4) The quorum for any meeting of the Inter-MinisterialCommittee shall be four members and the procedure inregard to the conduct of meetings and the transaction of itsbusiness, shall be regulated by the Inter-MinisterialCommittee.

83.(1) The Director-General may delegate any of hisfunctions and powers under this Act, to any officer not belowthe rank of Deputy Director of Commerce.

(2) An officer to whom any function or power is delegatedunder subsection (1), shall discharge or exercise suchfunction or power, subject to such directions as may be givenby the Director-General.

(3) The Director-General shall, notwithstanding anydelegation made under subsection (1), have the right todischarge or exercise any function or power so delegated.

84.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof which regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette, and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

Delegation bythe Director-General.

Regulations.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201863

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved shall be rescinded as from the date of suchdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

85.In this Act unless the context otherwiserequires

actionable subsidy means a subsidy

(a) that is specific within the meaning of section66 of this Act;

(b) the grant of which results in the receipt of abenefit as referred to in subsection (1) ofsection 67 of this Act; and

(c) that is not referred to in the Third Schedule tothis Act;

country includes a customs union or customs territory;

Department means the Department of Commerce;

Director-General means the Director-General ofCommerce;

Director-General of Customs shall have the samemeaning as given in the Customs Ordinance(Chapter 235);

domestic like product means the product produced inSri Lanka which is a like product to theinvestigated product, and includes any agriculturalproduct or livestock product;

Interpretation.

64Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

dumping means introduction to the commerce of SriLanka a product at a price which is less than itsnormal value;

dumping margin means the difference between theexport price and the normal value, expressed as apercentage of the export price, as it results from thecomparison of the two in accordance with theprovisions of this Act;

injury unless otherwise specified, means material injuryto a Sri Lankan industry, threat of material injuryto a Sri Lankan industry or material retardation ofthe establishment of a Sri Lankan industry;

investigated product means a product subject to ananti-dumping investigation or subsidized imports,as described in the notice of initiation of theinvestigation;

like product means a product which is identical, that isto say alike in all respects, to the investigatedproduct, or in the absence of such a product, anotherproduct which, although not alike in all respects,has characteristics closely resembling those of theinvestigated product;

Member means a Member Country of the World TradeOrganization established by Marrakesh Agreemententered into on the 15th of April, 1994;

Minister means the Minister in charge of the subject ofTrade;

non-actionable subsidy means a subsidy which is notsubject to a countervailing duty as determined bythe Director-General under subsection (2) of section65 of this Act;

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201865

party interested means

(i)the exporter or foreign producer of theinvestigated product;

(ii)the importer of the investigated product;

(iii)trade or business associations, a majority ofthe members of which are producers, exportersor importers of the investigated product;

(iv)the government of the exporting country;

(v)the producer of the domestic like product inSri Lanka;

(vi)trade and business associations a majority ofthe members of which produce the domesticlike product in Sri Lanka;

prohibited subsidy means

(a)subsidies contingent, in law or in fact (wherethe facts demonstrates that the granting ofthe subsidy is in fact, tied to actual oranticipated exportation or export earnings)whether solely or as one of several otherconditions, upon export performance,including those specified in the FourthSchedule to this Act;

(b)subsidies contingent, whether solely or asone of several other conditions, upon the useof domestic over imported goods;

provisional measures means

(a)in relation to Part I of this Act, the requirementto pay the provisional duty or furnish asecurity equal to the estimated dumpingmargin found in the preliminarydetermination; or

66Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(b)in relation to part II of this Act, the requirementto pay the provisional duty or furnish asecurity equal to the estimated subsidy foundin the preliminary determination;

Sri Lankan industry means the domestic producers as awhole of the domestic like product or products orthose of them whose collective output of thatproduct or products constitutes a major proportionof the total domestic production of that product orproducts, except that when producers are related tothe exporters or importers or are themselvesimporters of the allegedly dumped investigatedproduct, the term Sri Lankan industry may beinterpreted as referring to the rest of the producers.For the purposes of this definition, producers shallbe deemed to be related to exporters or importersonly if

(i)one of them directly or indirectly controlsthe other;

(ii)both of them are directly or indirectlycontrolled by a third person; or

(iii)together they directly or indirectly control athird person,

Provided, there are grounds for believing orsuspecting that the effect of the relationship is suchas to cause the producer concerned to behavedifferently from non-related producers. For thepurposes of this definition, one shall be deemed tocontrol another, when the former is legally oroperationally in a position to exercise restraint ordirection over the latter; and

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201867

subsidy means in relation to products that are importedinto Sri Lanka

(a) a financial contribution by the governmentor a public body that is made, including

(i)a direct transfer of funds includinggrants, loans, equity, infusion fromthat government or public body;

(ii)a potential direct transfer of funds orliabilities (loan guarantees etc.) fromthat government or public body;

(iii)a foregoing or non-collection ofrevenue (fiscal incentives such as taxcredits etc.) due to that governmentor public body;

(iv)the provision by that government orpublic body of goods or servicesotherwise than in the course ofproviding normal infrastructurefacilities;

(v)the purchase by that government orpublic body of products; or

(vi)the payments to a funding mechanismor entrusting or directing a privatebody to carry out any one or more ofthe functions referred to in paragraphs(i) to (v) above, which would normallybe vested in the government and thepractice in no real sense, differs frompractices normally followed bygovernments; or

68Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(b) any form of income or price support in thesense referred to in Article XVI of the GeneralAgreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994, that isreceived from such government or publicbody, and a benefit is thereby conferred, butan exemption of any export product fromduties and taxes born by the like product whendestined for domestic consumption, or theremission of such duties and taxes in amountsnot in excess of those which have accrued,by that government, shall not be deemed tobe a subsidy within the meaning of thisdefinition.

86.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201869

FIRST SCHEDULE

RELIANCE ON INFORMATION AVAILABLE

1. As soon as possible after the initiation of the investigation, theDirector-General shall specify in detail the information required fromany interested party, and the way in which that information shall bestructured by the interested party in its response. The Director-Generalshall also ensure that the party is aware that if information is notsupplied within the time period mentioned in the request forinformation, the Director-General shall be free to make determinationson the basis of the facts available, including those contained in theapplication for the initiation of the investigation by the Sri Lankanindustry.

2. The Director-General may also request that an interested partyprovide its response in a particular medium (e.g. computer tape) orcomputer language. Where such a request is made, the Director-General shall consider the reasonable ability of the interested party torespond in the preferred medium or computer language, and may notrequest the company to use for its response a computer system otherthan that used by the firm. The Director-General shall not maintain arequest for a computerized response, if the interested party does notmaintain computerized accounts and if presenting the response asrequested would result in an unreasonable extra burden on theinterested party, e.g. it would entail unreasonable additional cost andtrouble. The Director-General shall not maintain a request for responsein a particular medium or computer language if the interested partydoes not maintain its computerized accounts in such medium orcomputer language and if presenting the response as requested wouldresult in an unreasonable extra burden on the interested party, e.g., itwould entail unreasonable additional cost and trouble.

3. All information which is verifiable, which is appropriatelysubmitted so that it can be used in the investigation without unduedifficulties and which is supplied in a timely fashion, and, whereapplicable, supplied in a medium or computer language requested bythe Director-General shall be taken into account when determinationsare made. If a party does not respond in the preferred medium orcomputer language, but the Director-General finds that thecircumstances set out in paragraph 2 have been satisfied, this shall notbe considered to significantly impede the investigation.

[section 26 (1)]

70Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

4. Where the Director-General does not have the ability to processinformation if provided in a particular medium (e.g. computer tape)the information shall be supplied in the form of written material orany other form acceptable to the Director-General.

5. Even though the information provided may not be ideal in allrespects, this shall not justify the Director-General from disregardingit, provided the interested party has acted to the best of its ability.

6. If evidence or information is not accepted, the supplying partyshall be informed forthwith of the reasons thereof and have anopportunity to provide further explanations within a reasonable period,due account being taken of the time-limits of the investigation. If theexplanations are considered by the Director-General as not beingsatisfactory, the reasons for rejection of such evidence or informationshall be given in any published findings.

7. If the Director-General has to base its determinations, includingthose with respect to normal value, on information from a secondarysource, including the information supplied in the application for theinitiation of the investigation, they shall do so with specialcircumspection. In such cases, the Director-General shall, wherepracticable, check the information from other independent sources attheir disposal, such as published price lists, official import statisticsand customs returns, and from the information obtained form otherinterested parties during the investigation. However, if an interestedparty does not co-operate and thus relevant information is beingwithheld from the authorities, this situation could lead to a resultwhich is less favourable to the party than if the party did co-operate.

SECOND SCHEDULE

PROCEDURES FOR ON-THE-SPOT INVESTIGATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 33

1. Upon initiation of an investigation, the authorities of theexporting country and the firms known to be concerned shall beinformed of the intention of the Director-General to carry out an on-the-spot investigation.

2. If in exceptional circumstances it is intended to include non--governmental experts in the investigating team, the firms and theauthorities of the exporting country shall be so informed. Such non-governmental experts shall be subject to sanctions for breach ofconfidentiality requirements provided, as for in section 80 of thisAct.

[section 33 (3)]

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201871

3. It shall be standard practice to obtain explicit agreement of thefirms concerned in the exporting country before the visit is finallyscheduled.

4. As soon as the agreement of the firms concerned has beenobtained, the Director-General shall notify the authorities of theexporting country of the names and addresses of the firms to bevisited and the dates agreed.

5. The Director-General shall give sufficient advance notice tothe firms in question before the visit is made.

6.Visits to explain the questionnaire shall only be made at therequest of an exporting firm. Such a visit may only be made if theDirector-General notifies the representatives of the government ofthe country in question, and unless the latter do not object to the visit.

7. As the main purpose of the on-the-spot investigation is toverify information provided or to obtain further details, it shall becarried out after the response to the questionnaire has been received,unless the firm agrees to the contrary and the government of theexporting country is informed by the Director-General of theanticipated visit and does not object to it; further, it shall be standardpractice prior to the visit to advice the firms concerned of the generalnature of the information to be verified and of any further informationwhich needs to be provided, though this shall not preclude requests tobe made on the spot for further details to be provided, in the light ofinformation obtained.

8. Enquiries or questions put by the authorities or firms of theexporting countries and essential to a successful on-the-spotinvestigation shall, whenever possible, be answered before the visit ismade.

THIRD SCHEDULE

NON-ACTIONABLE SUBSIDIES

1. Assistance for research activities conducted by any body ofpersons, whether incorporated or unincorporated, or by any highereducational or research establishments on a contract basis with suchbody of persons, where

(a)the assistance covers not more than seventy-five per centumof the costs of industrial research or fifty per centum of thecosts of pre-competitive development activity; and

[section 65 (2) (b)]

72Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(b)the assistance is limited exclusively to cover

(i) cost of researchers, technicians and other supportingstaff employed exclusively in the research activity;

(ii) cost of instruments, equipment, land and buildingsused exclusively and permanently for the researchactivity and not disposed of on a commercial basis;

(iii) cost of consultancy and equivalent services usedexclusively for the research activity, includingbought-in research, technical knowledge, patents,etc.;

(iv) additional overhead costs incurred directly as a resultof the research activity;

(v) other running costs, such as materials, supplies andthe like, incurred directly as a result of the researchactivity.

2. Assistance to disadvantaged regions within the territory of aMember given pursuant to a general framework of regionaldevelopment, and not specific (within the meaning of section 66)within eligible regions, provided that

(a)each disadvantaged region must be a clearly designatedcontiguous geographical area with a definable economicand administrative identity;

(b)the region is considered as disadvantaged on the basis ofneutral and objective criteria, indicating that the regionsdifficulties arise out of more than temporary circumstances.The criteria shall clearly be spelled out in law, regulation orother official document, so as to be capable of verification;

(c)the criteria includes a measurement of economicdevelopment which shall be based on at least one of thefollowing factors:

(i) one of either income per capita or household incomeper capita, or GDP per capita, which must not beabove eighty five per centum of the average for theterritory concerned;

(ii) unemployment rate which must be at least onehundred and ten per centum of the average for theterritory concerned (as measured over a three yearperiod, such measurement, however may be acomposite one and may include other factors).

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201873

3. Assistance to promote adaptation of existing facilities to newenvironmental requirements imposed by any law or regulations, whichresult in greater constraints and financial burden on firms, providedthat the assistance

(a)is a one-time non-recurring measure;

(b)is limited to twenty per centum of the cost of adaptation;

(c)does not cover the cost of replacing and operating theassisted investment, which must be fully borne by firms;

(d)is directly linked to and proportionate to a firms plannedreduction of nuisances and pollution, and does not coverany manufacturing cost savings which may be achieved;and

(e)is available to all firms, which can adopt the new equipmentand/or production processes.

Director-General may refer to the World Trade OrganizationAGREEMENT ON SUBSIDIES AND COUNTERVAILINGMEASURES for any verification of non-actionable subsidies specifiedin this Schedule, and may consider, among others, modificationsmade by the World Trade Organization Committee on Subsidies andCountervailing Measures in the identification of non-actionablesubsidies.

FOURTH SCHEDULE

PROHIBITED SUBSIDIES

1. Illustrative List of Export Subsidies

(a)The provision by governments of direct subsidies toanybody of persons whether incorporate orunincorporate or an industry, contingent upon exportperformance;

(b)Currency retention schemes or any similar practiceswhich involve a bonus on exports;

(c)Internal transport and freight charges on exportshipments, provided or mandated by governments,on terms more favourable than for domestic shipments;

[section 85]

74Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

(d)The provision by governments or their agencies eitherdirectly or indirectly through government mandatedschemes, of imported or domestic products or servicesfor use in the production of exported goods, on termsor conditions more favourable than for provision oflike or directly competitive products or services foruse in the production of goods for domesticconsumption, if (in the case of products) such termsor conditions are more favourable than thosecommercially available on world markets to theirexporters;

(e)The full or partial exemption remission, or deferralspecifically related to exports, of direct taxes or socialwelfare charges paid or payable by industrial orcommercial enterprises;

(f)The allowance of special deductions directly relatedto exports or export performance, over and abovethose granted in respect to production for domesticconsumption, in the calculation of the base on whichdirect taxes are charged;

(g)The exemption or remission, in respect of theproduction and distribution of exported products, ofindirect taxes in excess of those levied in respect ofthe production and distribution of like products, whensold for domestic consumption;

(h)The exemption, remission or deferral of prior-stagecumulative indirect taxes on goods or services used inthe production of exported products in excess of theexemption, remission or deferral of like prior-stagecumulative indirect taxes on goods or services used inthe production of like products when sold for domesticconsumption:

Provided that, prior-stage cumulative indirect taxesmay be exempted, remitted or deferred on exportedproducts even when not exempted, remitted or deferredon like products when sold for domestic consumption,if the prior-stage cumulative indirect taxes are leviedon inputs that are consumed in the production of theexported product (making normal allowance forwaste). The provisions of this paragraph shall beinterpreted in accordance with the Guidelines onConsumption of Inputs in the Production Processreferred to in item 2 of this Schedule;

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201875

(i)The remission of drawback of import charges in excessof those levied on imported inputs that are consumedin the production of the exported product (makingnormal allowance for waste):

Provided that, in particular cases anybody ofpersons incorporated or unincorporated may use aquantity of home market inputs equal to, and havingthe same quality and characteristics as, the importedinputs as a substitute for them in order to benefit fromthis provision, if the import and the correspondingexport operations both occur within a reasonable timeperiod, not exceeding two years. The provisions ofthis paragraph shall be interpreted in accordance withthe Guidelines on Consumption of Inputs in theProduction Process specified in item 2 of this Scheduleand the Guidelines in the Determination ofSubstitution Drawback Systems as Export Subsidiesspecified in item 3 of this Schedule;

(j)The provision by governments (or special institutionscontrolled by governments) of export credit guaranteeor insurance programmes, of insurance or guaranteeprogrammes against increases in the cost of exportedproducts or of exchange risk programmes, at premiumrates which are inadequate to cover the long-termoperating costs and losses of the programmes;

(k)The grant by governments (or special institutionscontrolled by and/or acting under the authority ofgovernments) of export credits at rates below thosewhich they actually have to pay for the funds soemployed (or would have to pay if they borrowed oninternational capital markets in order to obtain fundsof the same maturity and other credit terms anddenominated in the same currency as the export credit),or the payment by them of all or part of the costsincurred by exporters or financial institutions inobtaining credits, in so far as they are used to secure amaterial advantage in the field of export credit terms:

Provided that, if a Member is a party to aninternational undertaking on official export credits towhich at least twelve original Members to the WorldTrade Organization AGREEMENT ON SUBSIDIESAND COUNTERVAILING MEASURES are partiesas of 1 January 1979 (or successor undertaking whichhas been adopted by those original Members), or if inpractice a Member applies the interest rates provisions

76Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

of the relevant undertaking, an export credit practicewhich is in conformity with those provisions shallnot be considered an export subsidy prohibited bythe World Trade Organization AGREEMENTON SUBSIDIES AND COUNTERVAILINGMEASURES;

(l)Any other charge on the public account constitutingan export subsidy in the sense of Article XVI of GATT1994.

2. Guidelines on Consumption of Inputs in the ProductionProcess

(1)Indirect tax rebate schemes can allow for exemption,remission or deferral of prior-stage cumulative indirecttaxes levied on inputs that are consumed in the productionof the exported product (making normal allowance forwaste).

(2)Similarly, drawback schemes can allow for the remissionor drawback of import charges levied in inputs that areconsumed in the production of the exported product(making normal allowance for waste).

(3)The Illustrative List of Export Subsidies specified in item 1of this Schedule, makes reference to the term inputs thatare consumed in the production of the exported productin paragraphs (h) and (i). Pursuant to paragraph (h), indirecttax rebate schemes can constitute an export subsidy to theextent that they result in exemption, remission or deferralof prior-stage cumulative indirect taxes in excess of theamount of such taxes actually levied on inputs that areconsumed in the production of the exported product.Pursuant to paragraph (i), drawback schemes can constitutean export subsidy to the extent that they result in a remissionor drawback of import charges in excess of those actuallylevied on inputs that are consumed in the production of theexported product. Both paragraphs stipulate that normalallowance for waste must be made in findings regardingconsumption of inputs in the production of the exportedproduct. Paragraph (i) also provides for substitution, whereappropriate.

(4)In examining whether inputs are consumed in theproduction of the exported product, as part of a

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201877

countervailing duty investigation conducted under Part IIof this Act, the Director-General shall proceed on thefollowing basis:

(a)where it is alleged that an indirect tax rebatescheme, or a drawback scheme, conveys a subsidyby reason of over-rebate or excess drawback ofindirect taxes or import charges on inputs consumedin the production of the exported product, theDirector-General shall first determine whether thegovernment of the exporting Member has in placeand applies a system or procedure to confirm whichinputs are consumed in the production of theexported product and in what amounts. Wheresuch a system or procedure is determined to beapplied, the Director-General shall then examinethe system or procedure to see whether it isreasonable, effective for the purpose intended, andbased on generally accepted commercial practicesin the country of export. The Director-Generalmay, in accordance with section 33 of this Act,carry out certain practical tests in order to verifyinformation or to satisfy itself that the system orprocedure is being effectively applied;

(b)where there is no such system or procedure, whereit is not reasonable, or where it is instituted andconsidered reasonable but is found not to be appliedor not to be applied effectively, a furtherexamination by the exporting Member based onthe actual inputs involved would need to be carriedout in the context of determining whether an excesspayment occurred. If the Director-General deemsit necessary, a further examination may be carriedout in accordance with paragraph (a);

(c)the Director-General shall treat inputs as physicallyincorporated if such inputs are used in theproduction process and are physically present inthe product exported. The Members note that aninput need not be present in the final product inthe same form in which it entered the productionprocess;

(d)in determining the amount of a particular inputthat is consumed in the production of the exportedproduct, a normal allowance for waste shall betaken into account, and such waste shall be treatedas consumed in the production of the exported

78Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

product. The term waste refers to that portion ofa given input which does not serve an independentfunction in the production process, is not consumedin the production of the exported product (forreasons such as inefficiencies) and is not recovered,used or sold by the same manufacturer;

(e)the Director-Generals determination of whetherthe claimed allowance for waste is normal shalltake into account the production process, theaverage experience of the industry in the countryof export, and other technical factors, asappropriate. The Director-General shall bear inmind that an important question is whether theauthorities in the exporting Member, havereasonably calculated the amount of waste, whensuch an amount is intended to be included in thetax or duty rebate or remission.

3. Guidelines in the Determination of Substitution DrawbackSystems as Export Subsidies

(1)Drawback systems can allow for the refund or drawback ofimport charges on inputs which are consumed in theproduction process of another product, and where the exportof this latter product contains domestic inputs having thesame quality and characteristics as those substituted for theimported inputs. Pursuant to paragraph (i) of the IllustrativeList of Export Subsidies specified in this Schedule,substitution drawback systems can constitute an exportsubsidy to the extent that they result in an excess drawbackof the import charges levied initially on the imported inputsfor which drawback is being claimed.

(2)In examining any substitution drawback system as part of acountervailing duty investigation conducted under Part IIof this Act, the Director-General shall proceed on thefollowing basis:

(a) paragraph (i) of the Illustrative List of ExportSubsidies specified in the Schedule, stipulates thathome market inputs may be substituted for importedinputs in the production of a product for export,provided such inputs are equal in quantity to, andhave the same quality and characteristics as, theimported inputs being substituted. The existence ofa verification system or procedure is important,because it enables the government of the exportingMember to ensure and demonstrate that the quantity

Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 201879

of inputs for which drawback is claimed does notexceed the quantity of similar products exported, inwhatever form, and that there is no drawback ofimport charges in excess of those originally leviedon the imported inputs in question;

(b) where it is alleged that a substitution drawback systemconveys a subsidy, the Director-General shall firstproceed to determine whether the government ofthe exporting Member has in place and applies averification system or procedure. Where such asystem or procedure is determined to be applied, theDirector-General shall then examine the verificationprocedures to see whether they are reasonable,effective for the purpose intended, and based ongenerally accepted commercial practices in thecountry of export. To the extent that the proceduresare determined to meet this test and are effectivelyapplied, no subsidy shall be presumed to exist. TheDirector-General may in accordance with section 33of this Act, carry out certain practical tests in orderto verify information or to satisfy itself that theverification procedures are being effectively applied;

(c) where there are no verification procedures, or wherethey are not reasonable, or where such proceduresare instituted and considered reasonable but arefound not to be actually applied or not appliedeffectively, there may be a subsidy. In such cases, afurther examination by the exporting Member, basedon the actual transactions involved would need tobe carried out to determine whether an excesspayment occurred. If the Director-General deems itnecessary, a further examination would be carriedout in accordance with paragraph (b);

(d) the existence of a substitution drawback provisionunder which exporters are allowed to select particularimport shipments on which drawback is claimed,shall not of itself be considered to convey a subsidy;

(e) an excess drawback of import charges in the senseof paragraph (i) of the Illustrative List of ExportSubsidies specified in this Schedule, shall be deemedto exist, where governments paid interest on anymoneys refunded under their drawback schemes, tothe extent of the interest actually paid or payable.

80Anti-Dumping and Countervailing DutiesAct, No. 2 of 2018

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.