PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 20.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of May 20, 2022

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of May, 2022]

SRI SHAKYASINHARAMA VIHARASTHAKARYASADHAKA SANVIDANAYA(INCORPORATION) ACT, No. 15 OF 2022

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20221

[Certified on 18th of May, 2022]

L.D.O. (Inc.) 19/2017

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE SRI SHAKYASINHARAMAVIHARASTHA KARYASADHAKA SANVIDANAYA

WHEREAS an Organization called and known as theSri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya has heretofore been established in Sri Lankafor the purpose of effectually carrying out its objects andtransacting all matters connected with the said Organizationaccording to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Organization has heretoforesuccessfully carried out and transacted the several objectsand matters for which it was established and has applied tobe incorporated and it will be for the public advantage togrant the said application:

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri ShakyasinharamaViharastha Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya (Incorporation)Act, No. 15 of 2022.

2.(1) From and after the date of commencement of thisAct, such and so many persons as now are members of theSri Shakyasinharama Viharastha Karyasadhaka Sanvidanaya(hereinafter referred to as the Organization) and shallhereafter be admitted as members of the body corporate herebyconstituted shall have perpetual succession under the nameand style of the Sri Shakyasinharama ViharasthaKaryasadhaka Sanvidanaya (hereinafter referred to as thebody corporate), and by that name may sue and be suedwith full power and authority to have, and use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

Short title

Preamble

Incorporation ofthe SriShakyasinharamaViharasthaKaryasadhakaSanvidanaya

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20222

(2) The body corporate shall be deemed to be a VoluntarySocial Service Organization within the meaning and for thepurpose of the Voluntary Social Services Organizations(Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 and theprovisions of that Act shall apply to and in relation to themanagement of the affairs of the body corporate.

3.The general objects for which the body corporate isconstituted are hereby declared to be

(a)to attend activities on religious development andthe development of the persons;

(b)to develop, protect and conserve SriShakyasinharamaya and other associated temples;

(c)to promote and foster humanitarian ideas, goodvalues and morals;

(d)to carry out awareness programmes for the generalpublic including school children of the value ofacquiring knowledge in Sinhala, English, Sanskritand other languages, computer and technicalknowledge;

(e)to implement cultural programmes aiming at theparticipation of the members of the public in suchprogrammes; and

(f)to extend support to services rendered by seniorcitizens organizations and to encourage suchorganizations.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20223

4.The objects of the body corporate shall be carriedout in accordance with written law and in such manner so asnot to create any conflict between the work of the bodycorporate and any work being carried out simultaneouslyby any Ministry or Department of the Government or of anyProvincial Council or any Local Authority.

5.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aBoard of Management (hereinafter referred to as the Board)consisting of such number of office bearers as may bespecified by the rules made under section 7.

(2)(a) The members of the Board of the Organizationholding office on the day immediately preceding the date ofcommencement of this Act shall, subject to the rules madeunder paragraph (b), function as an Interim Board of thebody corporate until the first Board is appointed or electedin the manner provided for by rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the InterimBoard of the body corporate shall have the power to makerules for the interim administration of the body corporateand for election or appointment of the members of the firstBoard of the body corporate, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at such meeting.

(d) The First Board of the body corporate shall beappointed or elected within one year of the date ofcommencement of this Act.

(3)(a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisors, shall be appointed or elected for a

Body corprate toensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Governmentor any ProvincialCouncil

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20224

period of three years and any such office bearer, patron oradvisor shall be eligible for re-appointment or re-electionafter lapse of the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall, having regard to the rules ofthe body corporate, elect or appoint a person to fill suchvacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the termof office of the member whom he succeeds.

6.Subject to the provisions of this Act and anyother written law, the body corporate shall have the powerto do, perform and execute the following acts for theachievement of the objects of the body corporate:

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings which may be requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be determinedby the Board with a view to promoting the objectsof the body corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the body corporate;

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind:

Powers of thebody corporate

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20225

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank in Sri Lanka approved by the Board;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediately requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate, in suchmanner as the Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto the objects of the body corporate or any real orpersonal property with a view to promoting theobjects of the body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate;

(h)to organize lectures, seminars and conferences witha view to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(i)to liaise and co-ordinate with other local and foreigninstitutions having similar objects to that of thebody corporate; and

(j)to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purposes of the body corporate.

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20226

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and bya majority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for thefollowing matters:

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, andservants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate orof the Board, or notices and agenda of suchmeetings, the quorum and the conduct of businessthereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate;

(f)the administration and management of the propertyof the body corporate;

(g)the procedure governing the manner of liaising andcoordinating with other local and foreigninstitutions having objects similar to that of thebody corporate; and

Rules of thebody corporate

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20227

(h)generally the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette within three months upon making of such rulesand shall come into effect on the date of such publication.

(4) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8.The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9.(1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,donations, subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants forand on account of the body corporate shall, subject to theprovisions of section 6(c), be deposited in one or more banksapproved by the Board to the credit of the body corporate.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurred bythe body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

10.(1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the body corporate.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andauditing

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20228

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorappointed by Auditor-General in terms of provisions ofArticle 154 of the Constitution and be certified by theAuditor-General or such qualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, qualified auditormeans

(a)an individual who, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practise as an Accountant, issued bythe Council of such institute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the resident partnersof which, being a member of the Institute ofChartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any otherinstitute established by law, possesses a certificateto practise as an Accountant, issued by the Councilof such institute.

11.(1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountsand a list of all assets and liabilities of the body corporatecertified by the Auditor-General or a qualified auditorreferred to in section 10, to the Ministry of the Ministerassigned the subject of Buddha Sasana under Article 44 or45 of the Constitution and to the Registrar of VoluntarySocial Services Organizations appointed under theVoluntary Social Services Organizations (Registration andSupervision) Act, No. 31 of 1980 before the expiration ofsix months of the year succeeding the year to which suchreport relates.

Annual Report

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 20229

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate, the detailsof all contracts and agreements entered into by the bodycorporate and the rules of the body corporate made undersection 7 during the financial year shall be attached to thereport referred to in subsection (1).

12.All debts and liabilities of the Organization existingon the day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Organization on that day shallbe paid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13.Subject to the provisions of this Act, and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the body corporate for thepurpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the bodycorporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange or otherwise dispose of the same.

14.The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15.(1) The Seal of the body corporate shall not affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Seal of the bodycorporate

Debts due byand payable tothe Organization

Application ofmoneys andproperty

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 202210

(2) The Seal of the body corporate shall be in the custodyof an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by theBoard.

16.(1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporatethere remains after the satisfaction of all its debts andliabilities any property whatsoever, such property shall notbe distributed among the members of the body corporate,but shall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate with the approval of the Registrar of Voluntary SocialServices Organizations appointed under the Voluntary SocialServices Organization (Registration and Supervision) Act,No. 31 of 1980 immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

17.Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice oraffect the rights of the Republic or of any body politic orcorporate.

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Saving of therights of theRepublic

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Sri Shakyasinharama Viharastha KaryasadhakaSanvidanaya (Incorporation) Act, No. 15 of 202211

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.