PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA (AMENDMENT )ACT, No. 23 OF 2006

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th August, 2006]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1Price : Rs. 10.75Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2006

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 20061

[Certified on 16th August, 2006]

L.D. O. 34/2005.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL AQUACULTURE DEVELOPMENTAUTHORITY OF SRI LANKA ACT, NO. 53 OF 1998

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the National AquacultureDevelopment Authority of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act,No. 23 of 2006.

2.The Long Title to the National AquacultureDevelopment Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 53 of 1998(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended by the substitution for the words TO DEVELOPAQUATIC RESOURCES AND THE AQUACULTUREINDUSTRY ;, of the Words TO DEVELOP AND MANAGEAQUACULTURE, AQUATIC RESOURCES ANDAQUACULTURE OPERATIONS ;.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby repealedand the following section is substituted therefor :-

3. The administration, management andcontrol of the affairs of the Authority shall bevested in a Board of Directors (hereinafterreferred to as the Board) consisting of :

(a) five Directors appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to asan appointed Director) fromamong persons of integrity, whohave had wide experience andproven ability in the field ofinland fisheries and aquaculture,science and technology, industry,commerce, finance, administrationor law ; and

Replacement tosection 3 of theprincipalenactment.Board ofDirectors.

Short title

Amendment tothe long title ofAct, No. 53 of1998.

2National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

(b) the following ex-officio Directors :-

(i) the Director-General ofFisheries and AquaticResources ;

(ii) the Chairman of theCeylon FisheriesCorporation, establishedunder the State IndustrialCorporations, Act, No. 49of 1957 ;

(iii) the Chairman of theGoverning Board ofthe National AquaticResoures Research andDevelopment Agency,established by theNational AquaticResources Research andDevelopment Agency Act,No. 54 of 1981 ;

(iv) an officer of the Ministryof the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance,nominated by thatMinister ;

(v) an officer of the Ministryof the Minister in chargeof the subject of Irrigation,nominated by thatMinister ;

(vi) an officer of the Ministryof the Minister in chargeof the subject of MahaweliDevelopment, nominatedby that Minister ;

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 20063

(vii) an officer of the Ministryof the Minister in chargeof the subject ofAgriculture, nominated bythat Minister ; and

(viii) an officer of the Ministryof the Minister in chargeof the subject ofEnvironment and NaturalResources, nominated bythat Minister ..

4.Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the addition at the end of that section, of the followingnew subsection :-

(4) The Director-General shall be entitled to bepresent and to speak at meetings of the Board, but shallnot be entitled to vote at such meetings..

5.Section 11 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1) by the substitution for paragraph (a) of thatsection, of the following paragraph :-

(a) to develop aquaculture, aquacultureoperations and culture based fisheriesin perennial reservoirs and seasonalreservoirs, with a view to increasingfish production and fish consumptionin the country ;;

(2) in paragraph (b) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words coastalaquaculture.and sea farming ; , of the words brackish water aquaculture, coastalaquaculture and mariculture ; ;

Amendment ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 11 of theprincipalenactment.

4National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

(3) in paragraph (e) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words promote anddevelop, of the words promote, facilitate anddevelop ;

(4) by the substitution for paragraphs (f), (g) and (h)of that section, of the following paragraphs :-

(f) to manage, conserve and develop, havingregard to the need to conserve biodiversity,aquaculture, aquatic resources used foraquaculture and the aquaculture operationsand culture based fisheries in perennialreservoirs and seasonal reservoirs ;

(g) to assist persons carrying on business as animporter, exporter, seller, distributor andsupplier of aquatic resources and engagedin aquaculture and the development ofaquatic resources as an importer, exporter,supplier, distributor and seller of aquaticresources ;

(h) to prepare and implement plans andprogrammes for the management,conservation and development ofaquaculture and aquaculture operationsand culture based fisheries in perennialreservoirs and seasonal reservoirs ; ; and

(5) by the repeal of paragraph (i) of that section.

6.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)in paragraph (a) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words surveys to ascertain thedevelopment, of the words surveys and assist inthe conduct of research to ascertain thedevelopment ; and

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 20065

(2)by the substitution for paragraph (c) of that section,of the following paragraph :-

(c)establish , maintain and manage aquaculturecenters for the promotion and developmentof aquaculture..

7.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor :-

13. ( 1) The Board shall appoint a personwith wide experience and proven ability ininland fisheries and aquaculture mangement asthe Director-General of the Authority (in thisAct referred to as the Director-General), whoshall be the Chief Executive Officer of theAuthority.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject tothe general direction and control of the Board,be responsible for the due administration of theaffairs of the Authority and for the exercise anddischarge of the powers and functions of theAuthority under this Act.

(3) The Director-General may, subject to theapproval of the Board, delegate in writing toany other employee of the Authority, such ofhis powers or functions as he may considernecessary. Any employee to whom any suchpowers or functions are delegated, shall exerciseand discharge them subject to the directions ofthe Director-General..

8. The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 14 of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as sections 14A and 14B of thatenactment :

Replacement ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.Director-General ofthe Authority.

Insertion ofnew sections14A and 14Bin theprincipalenactment.

6National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

14A. (1) The Director-General may with theapproval of the Board, nominate such officersof the Authority not below the rank of anAquaculture Extension Officer, to beappointed as Licensing Officers by theDirector-General of Fisheries and AquaticResources.

(2) Any officer appointed as a LicensingOfficer shall, in addition to exercising thepowers referred to in section 14B, be requiredto perform and discharge any duties orfunctions that may be assigned to such Officersby the Director-General of Fisheries andAquatic Resources.

14B. (1) A Licensing Officer shall have thepower to

(a) call for and examine at anytime a licence issued to anyperson for the purpose ofoperating or engaging in anaquaculture operation;

(b) inspect and examine any placeor premises in respect of whicha licence has been issued ;

(c) take copies of any documentsrequired to be kept andmaintained by a licence holderas specified in the terms andconditions of a licence issuedor any regulations made underthis Act or the Fisheries andAquatic Resources Act, No. 2of 1996, pertaining to thesame ;

Nominationof LicensingOfficers.

Powers andfunctions ofLicensingOfficers.

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 20067

(d) enter and search any place orpremises at all reasonablehours of the day in which theLicensing Officer hasreasonable cause to believethat any activity inconsistentwith the provisions of this Actor the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No. 2 of 1996is being carried on ;

(e) take samples of any fish or otheraquatic resource found in anyplace or premises searchedunder paragraph (d) ;

(f) seize any poisonous,stupefying substance,including dynamite or othernoxious or harmful material,which he has reason to believehas been used or may be usedto capture or collect anyaquatic resource or ornamentalfish ;

(g) to seize any boat, fishing netor other fishing gear orequipment, vehicle or thingwhich he has reason to believe,has been used in or inconnection with thecommission of an offenceunder this Act or the Fisheriesand Aquatic Resources Act,No. 2 of 1996 or anyregulations made thereunder ;and

(h) perform and discharge anyduty or function assigned tohim by the Director-General orthe Board, as the case may be.

8National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

(2)A Licensing Officer may seek the assistanceof the Police in the performance, discharge andexercise of his powers, duties and functions underthis Act and it shall be the duty of the Police to renderall such assistance as is requested..

9.Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedin subsection (1) of that section, by the addition at immediatelyafter paragraph (e) thereat, of the following new paragraph :

(f)all such sums of money received by theAuthority under section 43F and section 57Aof the Fisheries and Aquatic Resources Act,No. 2 of 1996..

10.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 32 of the principal enactment, andshall have effect as sections 32A and 32B of that enactment :

32A.The Authority shall be required tosubmit annually a report to the Director-Generalof Fisheries and Aquatic Resources, relating tothe work performed by the Licensing Officersduring the preceding year.

32B.(1) Where any building or otherstructure is being used for any activity contraryto the provisions of this Act or the provisionsof Part VI of the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No. 2 of 1996, the Director-General or any Licensing Officer authorizedin writing by the Director-General in that behalf,may by a written notice, require the person orpersons engaged in such activity to cease fromcarrying on the same, by or before the datespecified in the notice, which date howevershall not be less than seven days from the dateof issue of such notice.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofnew sections32A and 32Bin theprincipalenactment.Authority tosubmitannualreports.

Demolitionofunauthorizedbuildings orstructures.

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 20069

(2) Where the person or persons on whoma notice is issued under subsection (1) fails tocomply with its requirement within the timespecified or within such extended time as mayhave been granted by the Director-General orthe Licensing Officer who issued such notice,the Director-General or such Licensing Officermay make an application to the MagistratesCourt within whose jurisdiction such buildingor other structure is situated, to obtain an orderfor the demolition of such building or otherstructure.

(3) The Magistrate may, after such inquiryas shall be deemed appropriate in thecircumstances of the case, make an order forthe demolition of the building or other structurein respect of which the application was made.

(4) An order under subsection (3) shall beissued to the Fiscal of such Court, who shallforthwith take all necessary steps to executesuch order and shall report in writing to theCourt the manner in which such order wasexecuted..

11.Section 37 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section is substituted therefor :

37. (1) The Minister may make regulationsin respect of any matter required by this Act tobe prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) In particular and without prejudice tothe generality of the powers conferred bysubsection (1), the Minister may makeregulations in respect of all or any of thefollowing matters :

Replacement ofSection 37 of theprincipalenactment.Regulations.

10National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

(a)the manner of affordingprotection to aquatic-medium ;

(b)the manner in which aquacultureoperations in inland water are tobe conducted ;

(c)the measures to be taken and theprocedures to be adopted in themanagement, regulation,conservation and developmentof aquaculture ;

(d)the collection of statistics and themanner in which persons who areengaged in fishing, marketing orprocessing of aquacultureoperations may forward theirinformation ; and

(e)the prohibition of the use of anyspecific equipment, device,method or substance for thepurpose of or connected with thetaking of fish and other aquaticresources for aquaculture and theregulation of the time and mannerof taking of fish and otheraquatic resources in inlandwaters.

(3) Every regulation made by the Ministershall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Ministershall as soon as convenient after itspublication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any regulation which

National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 200611

is not so approved shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of such disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which anyregulation made by the Minister is deemed tobe rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

12.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofaquaculture, aquaculture enterprise, aquaticresources, fish, fishing boat, of the followingnew definitions :

Director-General of Fisheries and AquaticResources means the Director-Generalof Fisheries and Aquatic Resourcesappointed under section 2 of the Fisheriesand Aquatic Resources Act, No. 2 of 1996as amended by Act, No. 4 of 2000 ;

Licensing Officers means the officersappointed by the Director-General ofFisheries and Aquatic Resources undersection 40 of the Fisheries and AquaticResources Act, No. 2 of 1996 ;;

(2) by the addition immediately after the definition of theexpression Provincial Council, of the followingnew definitions :

perennial reservoir means a man madereservoir, retaining water throughout theyear ; and

seasonal reservoir means a man madereservoir, which goes dry completelyduring certain periods of the year..

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

12National Aquaculture Development Authority ofSri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 23 of 2006

13.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

14.(1) The members of the Board of Directors holdingoffice immediately prior to the date of commencement ofthis Act shall, notwithstanding the amendment made to section3 of the principal enactment by this Act, continue to holdsuch office until the new Board of Directors is constitutedunder section 3 of the principal enactment, as amended bythis Act.

(2) Notwithstanding the amendment made to section 13of the principal enatment by this Act, the person holdingoffice as the Director-General of the Authority on the date ofcommencement of this Act, shall, subject to the provisionsof section 13 of the principal enactment as amended by thisAct, continue to hold such office from the date ofcommencement of this Act.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Saving clause.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.