PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF. .
SRI LANKA

CONTROL OF PRICES (AMENDMENT) —
ACT, No. 33 OF 1979

[Certified on 23rd May, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

nent Fee ee me ene

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 08, 1979 :

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA f

_ 0 BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVI. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO.

Price: 45 cents .

wo ~~ v-— & & » . eee

- Postage: 25 cents


- Control of Prices (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1979
| [Certified on 23rd May, 1979]

li D—O. 23/78
An Act To AMEND THE CoNnTROL oF PRICES AcT.

IBE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic pocale: ,

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Control ck Prices
(Amendment) Act, No: 33 of 1979.

2. Section 6 of the Control of Prices Act (hereinafter
teferred to as the “principal enactment”) as amended by
Law No. 43 of 1975 is hereby further amended in subsection
(2) of that section, by the insertion, immediately after
paragraph (e) of that subsection, of the following new
paragraph :—

“ (f) all matters incidental to or connected with the

establishment of the Price Control Reward Fund
and the manner in which it is to be administered ; ”.

3. Section 8 of the principal enactment, as amended by
Law No. 48 of 1975, is hereby further amended in subsec-
tion (6) of that section by the omission of sub-paragraph (i)

of paragraph (a) of that subsection, and the substitution: ©

therefor, of the following new sub-paragraph :—

+ (i) if it is the contravention of an Order made or
deemed to be made under section 20 of the National
Prices Commission Law, by selling an article above
the maximum price fixed for that article by that
Order, or of a regulation for the prevention of the
hoarding of an article for which the maximum
price is fixed by such an Order, be punished with
rigorous imprisonment for a term not less than
four weeks and not exceeding six months, and, in

addition, with a fine not less than one thousand »

rupees and not exceeding seven thousand five
hundred rupees, and”.
4. The following new sections are hereby inserted

immediately after section 8 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 84 and 8B of that enactment :—

“Court to 8a. A court, before which an offender is
Sect ‘convicted of an offence under this Act, may —
of share‘of ‘in respect of any fine imposed for such
pute rate offence, direct that a sum not exceeding one-
Reward half of such fine or one-half of such amount

Fund.

offender, be paid to the Price Control Reward
Fund established under this Act.

A 40754—11,850 (79/04)

as may be actually recovered from such ~

Short title.

Amendment

of section 6 of ©

Chapter 173.

Amendment
of section 8 of ©
the principal
enactment.

Insertion of
new sections
8a and 8B in
the principal
enactment.


2 Control of Prices (Amendment) Act, No. 33 of 1979

eee eae 8p. (1) A Fund to be called the Price
’ Control Reward Fund (hereinafter referred

to in this ‘section as “the fund”) is hereby

established. é.

‘ (2) There shall be paid into the fund—

(a) all sums directed to be paid thereto by
a court or a Judge thereof under
this, Act or under any other written
law, or by a Judge in his discretion ;
and -

(b) such other payments as may be made
in accordance with ‘regulations
made in that behalf.

(3) There shall be paid out of the fund—

(a) all payments given as rewards to such
Price Control Inspectors and in
accordance with regulations made in
that behalf ;

(b) the expenses incurred in the adminis-
tration of the fund ; and

(c) all payments as may be made in accoy;
dance with regulations made in tha\
behalf. :

(4) The Controller of Prices shall be
responsible for the administration of the fund
and the accounts of the fund shall be audited

Tae annually by the Auditor-General. ”.
