PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 8.25 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2007

[Certified on 12th April, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 15 OF 2007

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20071

[Certified on 12th April 2007]

L.D. O. 9/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE ECONOMIC SERVICE CHARGE ACT

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Economic Service Charge(Amendment) Act, No. 15 of 2007, and shall come intooperation with effect from April 1, 2007.

2.Section 2 of the Economic Service Charge Act, No.13 of 2006 (hereinafter referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words for that relevant quarter does notexceed rupees ten million., of the words andfigures

for that relevant quarter,

(a)commencing before March 31, 2007, doesnot exceed rupees ten million ; and

(b)commencing on or after April 1, 2007 doesnot exceed rupees seven million fivehundred thousand.;

(2)in the proviso to paragraph (a) of subsection (3) ofthat section, by the substitution for all the wordsfrom shall not include any trade or business to theend of that paragraph, of the words and figures

shall not include

(i)for any relevant quarter of the year ofassessment commencing on April 1, 2006

Short Title.

Amendment ofSection 2 of Act,No. 13 of 2006.

2Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2007

and ending on March 31, 2007, any trade orbusiness of any person or partnership, whichdeals in the wholesale or retail trade of anygoods not manufactured or produced by suchperson or partnership ; and

(ii)for any relevant quarter of the year ofassessment commencing on or after April 1,2007, any trade or business, other than

(A)any manufacturing business ; and

(B)any business of a reopened factoryreferred to in section 24B of theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.

3.Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows :

(1)by the repeal of subsections (3), (4) and (5) of thatsection and the substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(3) The balance, if any, of the amount leviedas Economic Service Charge after the deductionin accordance with subsections (1) or (2) as thecase may be, apportioned to each year of assessmentwithin the period of four years immediatelysucceeding the first mentioned year of assessmentand the amount so apportioned to any such year ofassessment shall be deducted to the extent, it canbe so deducted from the income tax payable bysuch person or partner of such partnership for thatyear of assessment.;

(2)by the renumbering of subsection (6) of that sectionas subsection (4) thereof ; and

Amendment ofSection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20073

(3)in the renumbered subsection (4), by the substitutionfor paragraph (b) thereof, of the followingparagraph :

(b)The remaining portion, if any, of the balancereferred to in subsection (3) after its deductionin accordance with that subsection, bededucted from any income tax payable forany year of assessment succeeding the fourthyear of assessment immediately succeedingthe first mentioned year of assessment . .

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words and figures referred to insub-paragraph (b) of subsection (6) of section 3, shall of thewords and figures referred to in sub-paragraph (b) ofsubsection (4) of section 3, shall.

5.Section 9 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection (1)of that section ;

(2)by the addition, immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsections :

(2) Where it appears to an Assessor that anyperson or partnership liable to pay the EconomicService Charge for any relevant quarter of anyyear of assessment, has been assessed at less thanthe proper amount, the Assessor may, subject tothe provisions of subsection (3) and subsection(4), assess such person or partnership for theadditional amount (which in his opinion suchperson or partnership ought to have been assessedin addition to the amount originally assessed), andthe provisions of this Act as to notice of assessment,appeal and other proceedings shall thereuponapply to the recovery of such additional amount.

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 9 of theprincipalenactment.

4Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2007

(3) Where a person or partnership has furnisheda return of Economic Service Charge, the assessormay in making an assessment on such person orpartnership under subsections (1) or (2), either :

(a)accept the return furnished by such personor partnership ; or

(b)refuse to accept the return made by thatperson or partnership, and estimate theamount of the relevant turnover and assesssuch person or partnership accordingly :

Provided that where the Assessor refuses to accepta return furnished by any person or partnership andmakes an assessment or an additional assessment forany relevant quarter on such person or partnershipunder subsection (1) or subsection (2), he shallcommunicate to such person in writing, stating thereasons as to why he is not accepting the returnfurnished by that person or partnership.

(4) No assessment or additional assessmentshall be made under this Act in respect of a personor partnership who or which has made a return forany relevant quarter in any year of assessment onor before the dates referred to in section 7, after theexpiry of eighteen months from the end of the yearof assessment within which such relevant quarterfalls, if his or its return of income has been madeunder subsection (1) or subsection (7) of section106 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006..

6.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the definition of the expression person, by theaddition immediately after the sub-paragraph (b) of thatdefinition, of the following :

(c)any government institution or any local authorityas defined in the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of2006..

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20075

7.The Schedule to the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following Schedule substituted therefor:

Amendmentof Scheduleto theprincipalenactment.

Rate of theservice chargeApplicable tothat Part

SCHEDULE

Part of the Liable Turnover

1.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade, business, professionor vocation:

(i)the profit and income from which areexempt from income tax;

(ii)of any enterprise which has entered intoan agreement under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of1978, being the relevant turnover duringthe period for which the profits andincome of such enterprise are exemptfrom income tax under such agreement.

2.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade or business whichdeals in wholesale or retail of such goods (otherthan as a distributor or dealer in motor vehiclesor liquor) not manufactured or produced by thedealer.

3.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from the primary conversion ofany produce of any tea, rubber or coconutplantation including desicated coconut, coconutoil, coconut fibre, copra and sheet rubber butexcluding any such conversion which producesany alcoholic beverage.

4.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade, business, professionor vocation:

(i)the profits and income from which arechargeable with income tax at any ratespecified in the Fifth Schedule to theInland Revenue Act other than in item28 of that Schedule.

0.25 per centum

0.25 per centum

0.25 per centum

6Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2007

(ii)of any enterprise which has entered intoan agreement under the Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of1978, being the relevant turnover duringthe period for which the profits andincome of such enterprise are taxable atthe rate equal to a rate specified in theFifth Schedule to the Inland RevenueAct, No. 10 of 2006.

5.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade or business whichdeals in the wholesale or retail (other than asdistributor) of motor vehicles or liquor notmanufactured by the dealer.

6.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade, business, professionor vocation, the profits and income such arechargeable with income tax at the rates specifiedin Part A or B (i) of the Second Schedule to theInland Revenue Act, except in the case suchturnover falls within the turnover referred to initems 1, 2 or 3 of this Schedule.

7.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade or business of adistributor.

8.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade, business, professionor vocation the profits and income of which arechargeable with income tax at any rate otherthan a rate specified in the Fifth Schedule to theInland Revenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.

9.Such part of the relevant turnover as consists ofthe turnover from any trade or business ofcarrying on any activity referred to in item 28 ofthe Fifth Schedule to the Inland Revenue Act,No. 10 of 2006.

10.Such part of the relevant turnover, which consistsof, the relevant turnover from any trade orbusiness referred to in Section 42 of the InlandRevenue Act, No. 10 of 2006.

0.5 per centum

0.5 per centum

0.05 per centum

1.0 per centum

1.0 per centum

0.5 per centum

0.1 percentum

Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 20077

11. Such part of the relevant turnover as consists of

(i)the turnover from the export of apparels or thesupply of locally manufactured textiles toapparel exporters to be used in the manufactureof apparels for export by such exporter.

(ii)the turnover of a trading house approved bythe Board of Investment so far as such tradinghouse engages in the business of the export ofapparels.

12.Any relevant turnover not referred to in items 1 to11 above.

0.1 per centum.

8. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

1.0 per centum.

8Economic Service Charge (Amendment)Act, No. 15 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.