PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

aay

3rd Session 1967-68.7.. 7 8)

?)
\ we _A Q |
re ne wD

Nindagama Lands Act,
No. 30 of 1968 —

Date of Assent: June 22, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GoverNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PuBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Coromso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following, Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price : 60 cents. Postage : 10 cents.


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968
L. D—O. 7/66.

An ACT TO ABOLISH THE SERVICES DUE FROM THE
TENANTS AND HOLDERS OF, NINDAGAMA LANDS TO
THE PROPRIETORS THEREOF, TO MAKE SUCH
TENANTS AND HOLDERS THE ABSOLUTE OWNERS OF
SUCH LANDS, TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION OF
SUCH TENANTS AND HOLDERS AS ABSOLUTE OWNERS
THEREOF, AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 22, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: — .

1. This Act may be cited as the Nindagama Lands
Act, No. 30 of 1968. |

PART I.
ABOLITION OF SERVICES DUE IN RESPECT OF NINDAGAMA
LANDS, AND THE DECLARATION OF TENANTS OR HOLDERS
AS OWNERS OF SUCH LANDS.

2. The services due from any tenant or holder of
any nindagama land to any proprietor thereo! are
berey. abolished, and accordingly— go} bite dual.

(2) no such proprietor shall be entitled to demand
the performance of such services or to
demand or recéive any sum of money (due or
which may fall due) in commutation of such
services, from any tenant or holder thereof;

re

‘(b) no such tenant or holder shall be liable to
perform such services, or to pay such sum of
money: .f- gotdy inca

3. Every tenant or holder of any nindagama land
is Poeteny declared to be the owner thereon YAM

AH—641R—3,710 (7/67)

Short title.

Abolition of
services due
in respect of
nindagama
lands.

Declaration of
a@ tenant or
holder of any
nindageama land
asa owner
thoreof,


Ro compensa-
tion payabie
for any loss
or damage
incurred or
sutiered by
reason of the
abolition of
services due
in respect of
nindugama
lands.

No compensa-
tion payable
for loss

or damage
incurred or
suffered by
reason of any
tenant or
holder of any
nindagama land
becoming the
owner thereof.

Claim for an
award as to
title in

respect of any
nindagama land
and reference
of such claim
to the Board.

2 Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968

4. No tenant or holder of any nindagama land
shall be liable to pay compensation to the proprietor
thereof or to any other person for any loss or damage
incurred or suffered by. such proprietor or other
person, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of
the abolition of the services due by such tenant or
holder in respect of that land.

5. No tenant or holder of any nindagama land
shall be liable to pay compensation to the proprietor
thereof or to any other person for any loss or damage
incurred or suffered by such proprietor or other person,
whether directly or indirectly, by reason of his
becoming an owner thereof.

PART II.

CLAIMS FOR AN AWARD AS TO TITLE IN RESPECT OF
NINDAGAMA LANDS, AND REFERENCE OF SUCH CLAIMS
TO THE BOARD.

6. (1) After the appointed date, any new owner
of any nindagama land who desires to have his title .
as such owner registered shall, before the expiration
of the prescribed period after that date, make a
written claim for an award as to title in respect of
that land to the Board through the competent
authority for the district in which that land is
situated.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act—
(a) prescribing—
(i) the form in which any claim for an
award as to title may be made to the
| Board, and the particulars that shall
. be specified in that form, and
(ii) the documents which shall be forwarded
| along with such claim;
6) providing for all such other matters as may be
necessary in relation to the making of such
claim; and


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968 3

) providing for the appointment by a competent
authority, either of his own motion or on
application made by or on behalf of any
person, of a fit and proper person to be the
agent of such person, if such authority is
satisfied that such persun is entitled to make
a claim for an award as to title in respect of
any nindagama land and is a minor or a
person of unsound mind.

7. (1) Upon the receipt by a competent authority
of a claim for an award as to title in respect of any
nindagama land, such authority shall, subject to the
regulations made under this Act, refer such claim
in writing to the Board, together with all documents
received by such authority in respect of such claim.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act
prescribing—

(a) the form in which a reference under sub-
section (1) shall be made to the Board,
and the particulars that shall be
specified in that form;

(b) the steps or measures, if any, that shall
be taken by a competent authority
before he refers a claim for an award
as to title in respect of any nindagama
land to the Board; and

(c) all other matters in respect of which it is
necessary to make provision in regard
to any of the aforesaid matters.

PART III.
NINDAGAMA LANDS Boarp.

8. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there may be
established a Nindagama Lands Board (in this
Act referred to as “‘ the Board ’’) consisting of a
’ Chairman and fourteen other members.

Reference of
claims for
awards as to
title to the
Board.

Constitution of
a Nindagama
Lands Board.


Term of office
of members of
the Board.

Appointment of
Secretary and
staff of the
Board.

Proceedings
before the
Board.

Powers of the
Chairman of
the Board in
considering
and deciding
references.

4 Nindagama Lands Act, No. 80 of 1968

(2) A person shall be disqualified for being
appointed, or from continuing in office, as a member

of the Board— © 7
(a) if he is, or’ becomes, a Senator or a Member of
Parliament; or
(b) if he is, or becomes, a person having a right,
title or interest in or over any nindagama
land.

9. Every member of the Board shall, unless he
earlier vacates office, hold office for a period of three
years. Any member of the Board who vacates office
by effluxion of time shall be eligible for reappointment.

40. There may be appointed a Secretary of the
Board, and such other officers and servants as may be
necessary for the purpose of enabling the Board to
carry on its business.

- 44. Every reference of a claim for an award as to
title in respect of any nindagama land made to the
Board shall be considered and determined at a
meeting of the Board.

. 42. The Chairman of the Board, and if the Chair-
man is not presiding at a meeting of the Board, the
chairman of that meeting, shall, for the purposes of
considering and deciding. any reference of a claim
for an award as to title in respect of any nindagama
land made to the Board, have all the powers of a
District Court— .

(2) to summon. and compel -the attendance of

witnesses ;
-@) to compel the nroduebion, of decamenite; and

s (c) to administer any oath or "affirmation to
witnesses. ia mm


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968 5

48. Every person giving evidence on any matter
before a meeting of the Board shall be bound to state
the truth on such matter.

14. The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall
be three members.

45. A decision made at a meeting of the Board
on any matter considered at that meeting shall be
deemed to be the decision of the Board on that
matter.

16. Separate meetings of the Board may be con-
vened and held at the same time to consider and
decide different references of claims for awards as
to title in respect of different nindagama lands.

17. The proceedings before the Board on any
reference of a claim for an award as to title in respect
of any nindagama land shall, as far as possible, be
free from the formalities and the technicalities of the
rules of procedure and evidence applicable in a court
of law, and may be conducted by the Board in any
manner, not inconsistent with the principles of
natural justice, which to the Board may seem best
adapted to elicit proof concerning the matters that
are investigated. |

18. Where a reference of a claim for an award
as to title in respect of any nindagama land is made
to the Board, the Board shall, before making such
award, give any such claimant an opportunity
of being heard either in person or by an agent
authorized in that behalf. :

19. (1) Where a reference of a claim for an award
as to title in respect of any nindagama land is made
to the Board, the Board shall, after considering all
such matters and hearing all such witnesses as may
be necessary for the purpose, and having due regard
to any such regulations made under this Act as may
be applicable in that behalf, make a decision in res-
pect of such claim, and give notice of its decision to
any such claimant.

Persons giving
evidence before
the Board
bound to state
the truth.

Quorum for
meetings of
the Board.

Decisions of
the Board.

Separate
meet.ngs of
the Board
mav he held
at the same
time.

Special provi-
sion relating
to proceedings
before the
Board on a
reference,

Claimant for
an award ip
respect of

any nindagama
land to be
given an
opportunity of
being heard.

Decision of the
Board on a
reference.


Appeal against
the decision of
the Board on
any reference
to s District
Court.

Award of the
Board.

6 Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968

(2) Subject to the other provisions of this Act,
where the Board makes a decision on any reference
of a claim for an award as to title in respect of any
nindagama land, and no appeal is preferred against
such decision as hereinafter provided, the decision
shall be final and conclusive.

20. (1) Where any claimant is dissatisfied with
the decision of the Board on any reference of a claim
for an award as to title in respect of any nindagama
land, he may, within the prescribed period after the
date of service on him of a notice of such decision,
prefer an appeal against such decision to the District
Court having jurisdiction over the place where such
land is situated.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act
providing the form, mode and manner in which any
appeal under sub-section (1) shall be preferred, the
persons who shall be made parties to such appeal, and
the procedure to be followed by a District Court in
entertaining, hearing and disposing of, such appeal.

(3) No stamp duty shall be required in any proceed-
ings before a District Court relating to an appeal
under sub-section (1).

(4) A District Court may award to any party to any
appeal under sub-section (1) an amount determined by
that Court as his costs of proceedings relating to the
appeal.

(5) The determination of a District Court on any
appeal under sub-section (1) shall be final and

conclusive.

24. (1) The Board shall, as soon as may be after
its decision on any reference of a claim for an award
as to title in respect of any nindagama land has become
final and conclusive under section 19 (2), or after the
final determination of that reference by the District
Court on an appeal preferred to such Court against


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968 7

such decision, make an award as to title in respect of

that land, determining all such matters as may be

prescribed and as are applicable in the case of that

award. Such award shall be substantially in the

prescribed form, and shall contain such prescribed
_ particulars as may be applicable thereto.

(2) The Board shall give written notice of an award
as to title in respect of any nindagama land to every
person whose interests in that land are affected bv
such award.

(3) An award as to title in respect of any nindagama
land made by the Board shall, where the decision of
the Board on the reference for such award became
final and conclusive under section 19 (2), accord with
that decision, or where an appeal against that decision
was preferred to a District Court, accord with the
determination of that Court in such appeal.

PART IV.

AWARDS AS TO TITLE IN RESPECT OF NINDAGAMA
LANDS.

22. Every award as to title in respect of any Awards as to
_nindagama land shall, subject to the provisions of ar cindegane”
section 23, be published in the Gazette, and every lsnds to be
award so published shall be judicially noticed, and ke °
shall be conclusive proof, so far as any person is
thereby declared to be entitled to such land or to any
share or interest in such land, that such person is
entitled to such land or to such share of or interest in
that land, free ot all encumbrances whatsoever other
than those specified in such award, and that, subject
to the encumbrances so specified, such land or share
or interest vests absolutely in such person to the

exclusion of all persons whatsoever:

Provided that nothing in the preceding provisions
of this section shall affect the right of any person
prejudiced by fraud, or the wilful suppression of facts
of any claimant to any interests in any nindagama
land from proceedings against such claimant, either
for the recovery of damages or for the recovery of the
land or any share or interests in the land awarded ‘to
such claimant by any award referred to in the

« Preceding provisions of this section.


Registration of
ap award as to
title in respect
of any ninda-
gama Jand.

Cap. 117.

Administration
of this Act.

Appointed date |

for the purposes
of section 6.

Regulations,

S Nindagama Lands Act, No. 80 of 1968

23. Before an award as to title in respect of any
nindagama land is published in the Gazette by the
Board under section 22, the Board shall cause a copy
of such award to be transmitted to the Registrar of
Lands of the district or each district in which the
land is situated, and such Registrar, or each such
Registrar, as the case may be, shall duly register such _
copy under the Registration of Documents Ordinance
as an instrument affecting the land to which such copy
relates. No fee shall be charged for the registration
of such copy under such Ordinance, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in such Ordinance or in any
regulation made thereunder.

PART V.
GENERAL.

24. The Settlement Officer shall be responsible for
the general supervision and control of the adminis-
tration of this Act, and in that capacity may issue
general or special directions to a competent authority
as to the exercise, performance or discharge of his
powers, duties or functions under this Act, and it
shall be the duty of such authority to comply with
such directions.

25. The appointed date referred to in section 6-
shall be such date as may be appointed for the purposes
of that section by the Minister by Order published in
the Gazette,

26. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out and giving effect to the
principles and provisions of this Act. :

(2) In particular, but without prejudice to the
generality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1),
the Minister may make regulations in respect. of the
following matters :—

(a) any matter required by this Act to be pres-
cribed, or in respect of which regulations
are authorized by this Act to be made;

(b) all or any of the matters specified in the Schedule
to this Act;

(c) any matter for which no provision or no effec-

| tive provision is made by this Act, or in
respect of which it is necessary to modify or
supplement the provisions of this Act.


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968 9

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into opera-
tion on the date of such publication, or on such other
later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall,
as soon as convenient after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before the Senate and the House
of Representatives for approval. Any regulation
which is not so approved shall be deemed to be
rescinded as from the date of disapproval, but with-
out prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

27. No act or proceeding of the Board shall be
deemed to be invalid by reason of any vacancy in the
office of a member of the Board.

28. The provisions of this Act shall have force
and effect, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
In any custom, usage, or other law, written or other-
wise, and accordingly, in the event of any conflict or
inconsistency between the provisions of this Act and
such custom, usage or other law, the provisions of
Elis Act shall prevail over such custom, usage or other
aw.

29. The Service Tenures Ordinance shall cease to
apply to any nindagama land, and accordingly the
provisions of that Ordinance shall be read and con-
strued so as to give full force and effect to the pre-
ceding provisions of this Act relating to such
cessation. |

80. The Service Praveni Lands Succession Ordi-
nance is hereby repealed. _ 3

31. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

‘* commissioner ’? means the Surveyor-General or
any of his assistants, or any licensed
surveyor, to whom a commission is issued
under this Act;

‘competent authority’ means the Government
Agent of any administrative district or any
other prescribed officer; ; , ,

Vacancy in the
office of a
member of. the.
Board not to
invalidate

acts or
proceedings.

This Act to

prevail over

any custom,

usage or any
other law.

Chapter 467 to
cease to apply
to nindagama
lands.

Repeal of
Chapter 4686.

Interpretation.


10 Nindagama Lands Act, No. 30 of 1968

‘“ district ’? means any administrative district
Cap. 892. established under the Administrative Dis-
tricts Act;

“holder ’’, in relation to any nindagama land,
means a person who was, prior to the date
of the commencement of this Act, a praveni
nilakaraya of any praveni pangu of that land

Cap. 467. within the meaning of the Service Tenures
Ordinance;

‘** Minister ’’ means the Minister to whom the sub-

: ject of lands has been assigned under the

Cap. 379. Ceylon (Constitution) Order in Councii,
1946;

‘* new owner ’’, in relation to any nindagama land,
means a person who becomes such owner by
virtue of the operation of the provisions of
section 3, and includes any successor or
successors to his title as such owner;

‘* nindagama land ’’ means any land in respect of
which a proprietor thereof was, prior to the
date of the commencement of this Act,
entitled to demand services from any praveni
nilakaraya or maruwena nilakaraya for and ~
in respect of a praveni pangu or maruwena
pangu held by any such nilakaraya, or to
demand or receive from any such nilakaraya
any sum of money in commutation of any
such services, but does not include vihara-
gama or devalagama land;

‘tenant’’, in relation to any nindagama land,
means a person who was, prior to the date of
the commencement of this Act, a maruwena
nilakaraya of a maruwena pangu of that
land within the meaning of the Service
Tenures Ordinance ;

‘‘ this Act ’’ includes the regulations made there-
under.
(2) The expression ‘‘ absolute owners *? occurring

in the long title to this Act in any context relating |
to nindagama lands shall not be deemed or construed


Nindagama Lands Act, No. 80 of 1968 = 11

to mean the owners of such lands free of encumbrances,
but shall be deemed or construed to mean only the
owners of such lands free of the services abolished
in respect thereof by this Act.

SCHEDULE

1. The remuneration of members, officers and servants of the
Board.

2. The constitution of the Board, the procedure to be
observed in summoning meetings and in the conduct of
meetings of the Board.

8. The payment of travelling and other expenses to persons
summoned to give evidence before the Board.

4. The manner of recovery of costs of claimants in awards
relating to claims to title in nindagama lands.

5. The facts to be ascertained before issuing commissions and
terms of commissions issued by the Board.

6. The due execution and due return of commissions issued
by the Board.

7. Power of the Board or any member of the Board or its
officers to enter, inspect and do all such acts or things in or
upon land as may be necessary for the purposes of this Act.

8. The power of the commissioner and his assistants to enter
land and do all such acts or things in or upon such land for the
due execution of a commission, issued by the Board.

_9. Penalty for obstructing or resisting any person in the
discharge of any power, duty or function conferred or imposed
on him by this Act or regulations made thereunder.
