PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCE ACT, No. 21 OF 2019

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 12.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 01, 2019

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

Short title.

[Certified on 31st of October, 2019]

L.D.O. 15/2019

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018; TO PROVIDE

FOR THE IMPOSITION OF A FOREIGN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONSLEVY; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 21 of2019.

PART I

AMENDMENT OF PART VII OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

2.Section 23 of the Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018 ishereby amended by the substitution for the definition of theexpression specified motor vehicle of the followingdefinition:

specified motor vehicle

(a)in relation to a vehicle of which the firstregistration falls prior to November 1, 2019,means any assembled or unassembled dieselmotor vehicle of which the cylinder capacityexceeds 2,300 CC or a petrol motor vehicle ofwhich the cylinder capacity exceeds 1,800 CCor an electric vehicle of which motor power ofthe engine exceeds 200 Kw, but shall not includea dual purpose petrol motor vehicle of whichthe cylinder capacity does not exceed 2,200 CC,a dual purpose electric motor vehicle, a van,a single cab or a wagon;

Amendment ofsection 23 ofAct,No. 35 of 2018.

2Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(b)in relation to a vehicle of which the firstregistration falls on or after November 1, 2019,means any assembled or unassembled motorvehicle, but does not include a van, a singlecab, a double cab, a motor cycle, a motor tricycle,a motor ambulance, a motor hearse, a lorry, atractor, a hand tractor, a trailer or any motorvehicle for transport of goods, as identified underthe harmonized commodity description andcoding system numbers provided in terms of theCustoms Ordinance (Chapter 235)..

PART II

AMENDMENT OF PART XI OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

3.Section 40 of the Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby amended by the repeal of subsection(1) thereof and the substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(1) There shall be levied a tax to be called theCarbon Tax (hereinafter in this Part referred to as thetax) for the period commencing from January 1, 2019and ending on November 30, 2019, from the registeredowner of every motor vehicle specified in the ThirdSchedule hereto, at the rates specified in that Schedule:

Provided however, the tax payable under thissubsection shall not be levied in respect of any motorvehicle registered for the first time within the periodcommencing from January 1, 2019 and ending onNovember 30, 2019, in terms of the Motor Traffic Act(Chapter 203)..

4.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following new subsection:

(1) The tax payable under subsection (1) of section40, shall be paid by the registered owner of any relevantmotor vehicle, to the Divisional Secretary, on or beforethe due date of renewal of annual registration..

Amendment ofsection 40 ofAct,No. 35 of 2018.

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

3Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

PART III

AMENDMENT OF PART XII OF THE FINANCE ACT, NO. 35 OF 2018

5.Section 46 of the Finance Act, No. 35 of 2018 ishereby repealed and the following new section is substitutedtherefor:

46. (1) Where the amount of the levy or partthereof is in default, the defaulter shall be liableto pay to the Commission, in addition to thelevy in default, a surcharge calculated

(a)at the rate of ten per centum of theamount of such levy as is in defaultfor the subsequent period of onemonth or part thereof, from the duedate for the payment of the levy undersection 44; and

(b)at the rate of two per centum of theamount of such levy as is in defaultfor the subsequent period of onemonth or part thereof, from the duedate for the payment specified inparagraph (a),

which surcharge shall be collected by theCommission.

(2) The Commission shall take action torecover any levy which is in default for a periodof more than three months, along with theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, inthe manner as is specified hereafter.

(3) The Commission shall cause to be issuedon the defaulter, a Notice, informing thedefaulter of the intention of the Commissionto institute proceedings for the recovery of theamount of the levy in default and the surchargeaccrued thereon in terms of the provisions ofthis section unless such levy and the surchargethereon is paid within a period of three weeksof the date of issue of such Notice.

Recovery ofthe levy indefault.

Replacement ofsection 46 ofAct, No. 35 of2018.

4Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(4) Where the Commission issues Notice onthe defaulter in terms of subsection (3) but theamount of the levy in default along with thesurcharge thereon remains unpaid even thoughthe period of three weeks specified in suchNotice has elapsed, the Commission shall underthe hand of the Chairman, issue to theMagistrate having jurisdiction over the divisionin which the defaulter resides or is carrying onbusiness, a Certificate containing the nameand address of the defaulter and the total sumin default along with a statement to the effectthat the person so named has defaulted inmaking the payment as required by this section.Where the defaulter is a body corporate, a firmor a body unincorporated other than a firm, thecertificate shall contain the names of everydirector and officer responsible with themanagement and control of such bodycorporate or, of every partner of such firm or, ofevery officer responsible with the managementand control of such body unincorporate.

(5) The Magistrate shall on receipt of theCertificate issued under subsection (4), issuesummons on the defaulter requiring suchdefaulter to appear before him on a date to bespecified and show cause as to why the amountspecified in such certificate should not berecoverd from such defaulter. Where the causeshown appears to the Magistrate to beinsufficeient so as to explain the reason for thenonpayment, the Magistrate shall afterrecording the same, make order for the recoveryof the amount specified in such certificate, fromthe defaulter as if it were a fine imposed by theMagistrate. The money so recovered shall beremitted to the Commission, which shall creditthe same to the Consolidated Fund..

5Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

PART IV

IMPOSITION OF A LEVY ON FOREIGN COMMERCIAL TRANSACTIONS

6.(1) This Part of this Act shall come into operation onsuch date as the Minister may by Order published in theGazette appoint (hereinafter in this Part referred to as theappointed date).

(2) The Order under subsection (1) shall, not later thanthree months from the date of publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for its approval.

(3) Notification of the date of the approval undersubsection (2) shall be published in the Gezette.

7.(1) From and after the appointed date, there shall becharged, a levy to be called the Levy on ForeignCommercial Transactions (hereinafter in this Part referredto as the Levy) from every person who has completeda transaction through a payment card with a person outsideSri Lanka, to purchase any goods or services from such personoutside Sri Lanka.

(2) The rate of the Levy shall be 3.5 per centum on thesum remitted outside Sri Lanka for any transaction undersubsection (1).

(3) The levy shall be collected at the time of the remittanceof the sum outside Sri Lanka for a transaction referred to insubsection (1), by every financial institution which transfersany such sum.

(4) The aggregate of the sums so collected undersubsection (3), by any financial institution within any monthshall be remitted to the Commissioner-General on or beforethe twentieth day of the month succeeding the relevantmonth.

Date ofoperation of thisPart.

Imposition of aLevy on foreigncommercialtransactions.

6Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

(5) A financial institution shall in respect of each financialyear of such financial institution, furnish a return to theCommissioner-General within a period of six months fromthe end of that financial year, in such form, manner andcontaining such information together with such attachments,as may be specified by the Commissioner-General.

(6) The provisions which may be necessary for theimplemention of the provisions of this Part and collectionof the levy shall be prescribed by regulations made underthis Act.

8.The Minister may, having regard to the economicdevelopment of the country, by Order published in theGazette, exempt any transaction specified in such Order,subject to such conditions as may be specified in such Order,from the application of the provisions of section 7.

9.(1) Where any financial institution, which is liableto pay the levy under this Part fails to pay the levy as providedfor in section 7, such financial institution shall be deemedto be a defaulter under this Act.

(2) The provisions of Chapter IX, Chapter XI, ChapterXII, Chapter XIII, Chapter XIV, Chapter XV, Chapter XVI,Chapter XVII and Chapter XVIII of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and inrelation to any such defaulter.

10.In this part of this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

Commissioner-General means, the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue appointed or deemedto be appointed under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017;

charge card means, a payment card which involvesa line of credit granted by the issuer to thecardholder where the credit utilized by the

Exemption fromthe payment ofthe Levy.

Default inpayment of theLevy.

Interpretation.

7Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

cardholder must be settled fully on or beforea date specified by the issuer, without anyextended credit;

credit card means, a payment card which involves aline of credit granted by the issuer to thecardholder where the credit utilized can be settledin full or in part on or before a specified date. Theissuer may charge interest or other charges on anyamount not settled on the specified date;

debit card means, a payment card that may be usedto withdraw cash or execute payments forpurchase of goods and services, or for both suchpurposes, by directly debiting from thecardholders account;

finance company means, a finance companylicensed under the Finance Business Act, No. 42of 2011;

financial institution means, a licensed commercialbank, a licensed specialized bank, or a financecompany engaged in the business as an issuer ofpayment cards or financial acquirer of paymentcards under the authority of a licence issued byCentral Bank of Sri Lanka;

financial acquirer means, any person who makesarrangements with third parties to accept paymentcards of cardholders as a means of payment andreimburses those third parties with the value ofthe goods or services purchased by the cardholder,or who reimburses such third parties for cashadvances obtained by the card holders or performsboth such functions;

issuer means, an entity that issues a payment cardand thereby enters into a contractual relationshipwith the cardholder;

8Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

licensed commercial bank means, a commercialbank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

licensed specialized bank means, a specializedbank licensed under the Banking Act, No. 30 of1988;

payment card means, a debit card, credit card,charge card or stored-value card;

person shall have the same meaning assigned tosuch expression under the Inland Revenue Act,No. 24 of 2017;

stored-value card means, a payment card or anyother device with access to a stored value that canbe used as a means of payment and does notinclude a card that can be used only to settlepayment obligations to the issuer of such card.

PART V

GENERAL

11.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters which are required to be prescribed or for whichregulations are authorized to be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister undersubsection (1) shall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of its publication or onsuch later date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall withinthree months from its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of disapproval but without prejudice to anything dulydone thereunder.

Regulations.

9Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

10Finance Act, No. 21 of 2019

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.