PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (REGULATION OFAMNESTY) ACT, No. 10 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 20th October, 2004]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 6.75Postage : Rs. 4.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 22, 2004

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20041

[Certified on 20th October, 2004]

L.D.O. 14/2004.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF THE GRANT OF AN AMNESTY

IN RESPECT OF THE NON-PAYMENT OR NON-DISCLOSURE OF LIABILITY TO PAY

INCOME TAX IN RESPECT OF DECLARATIONS MADE ON OR BEFORE AUGUST31, 2003 IN TERMS OF THE REPEALED INLAND REVENUE (SPECIALPROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 7 OF 2002 AND THE INLAND REVENUE (SPECIALPROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 10 OF 2003 ; TO PROVIDE FOR THE REPEAL OF THEINLAND REVENUE (SPECIAL PROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 10 OF 2003 ; AND

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Regulation of Amnesty) Act, No. 10 of 2004.

2.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act,the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003is hereby repealed.

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 3 of this Act, anyperson who, on the day immediately prior to the enactmentof the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of2003, was liable, to pay any tax, levy, penalty (including anypenalty in respect of any offence), or fine or to forfeiture interms of any of the laws specified in the Schedule to theaforesaid Act, shall continue to be liable to the payment ofsuch tax, levy, penalty (including any penalty in respect ofany offence), forfeiture or fine, notwithstanding anythingdone or any right or liberty acquired in terms of the provisionsof the aforesaid Act.

3.(1) Any person whether in Sri Lanka or abroad, who,though required under the laws relating to the payment ofincome tax for the time being in force, had not in relation toany period prior to March 31, 2002 declared to theCommissioner-General his liability to such tax or the sourcesof his income and assets as at March 31, 2002, shall if such

Short title.

2H 022751-10,200 (08/2004)

Repeal of Act,No.10 of 2003.

Declarationsmade prior toAugust 31,2003, deemed tobe declarationsmade in terms ofthis Act.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20042

person had on or before August 31, 2003 made a declarationto the Commissioner-General disclosing his liability oradditional liability to the payment of income tax and all thesources of his income and assets as at April 1, 2002, be deemedto be a declaration made under this Act, and be entitled to anamnesty in terms of this Act:

Provided that in granting the amnesty as set out above,the Commissioner-General shall verify the correctness of thedeclarations received by him and grant the amnesty only inrespect of such part of the declaration which disclosesinformation in relation to undeclared income, undeclaredassets and undeclared sources of income or additional income,assets and sources of income.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared

(a)that any declaration made under the provisions

(i)of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)Act, No. 7 of 2002 shall in accordance withthe provisions of subsection (2) of section11 of the Inland Revenue (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003 ; and

(ii) of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 2003, shall in accordance withthe provisions of subsection (1) of section 3of this Act,

be deemed to be a declaration to which theprovisions of this section shall be applicable to ;and

(b)that any reference to the Inland Revenue (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003 shall mean andinclude the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act,No. 10 of 2003 as amended by the Inland Revenue(Special Provisions) (Amendment) Act, No. 31 of2003.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20043

(3) The Commissioner-General or any officer not belowthe rank of Deputy Commissioner authorised by him in thatbehalf may, where necessary require the persons whosedeclarations have been acknowledged to furnish him withthe necessary particulars or with additional particulars asmay be necessary for the purpose of assisting him indetermining whether or not the amnesty should be granted.The particulars shall be furnished in the prescribed form withintwo weeks of the date on which such information wasrequested from him.

4.(1) (a) Subject to the provisions of this Act, noprosecution shall be instituted for any offence committed bya declarant referred to in section 3 of this Act and noinvestigation shall be carried out against any declarant forthe imposition of income tax, wealth tax or surcharge onincome tax and wealth tax as the case may be, in accordancewith the provisions of any written law relating to the same forthe time being in force in so far as it relates to the amnestygranted by the Commissioner-General in terms of section 3.

(b) Any person who has made a declaration as is referredto in section 3 of this Act, shall be entitled to immunity fromthe payment of any income tax, wealth tax, or surcharge onincome tax and wealth tax as the case may be, together withany penalty payable in respect of any disclosure of previouslyundeclared income, assets or sources of income, for the periodending on or before March 31, 2002 :

Provided that no employer shall be exempt from thepayment of the tax and the penalty referred to in paragraphs(1) (a) and (1) (b) above, in terms of the provisions of ChapterXIV of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 applicable tothe deduction of income tax from the remuneration of theemployees, or any other previous law applicable to the same.

(2) It shall be lawful for the Commissioner-General or anyother Authority administering the collection and recovery ofany tax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect of

No investigationor prosecution tobe carried out.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20044

any offence) forfeiture or fine in terms of any law referred toin the Schedule of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions)Act, No. 10 of 2003,

(a)to collect and recover any such tax, levy or penalty,(including any penalty in respect of any offence)forfeiture or fine, subsequently waived, dischargedor otherwise not recovered in accordance with theprovisions of the aforesaid Act, in the mannerprovided for in terms of any law referred to in theSchedule to the aforesaid Act under which any suchtax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty inrespect of any offence) forfeiture or fine was imposed;and

(b)to issue assessments or any other orders as the casemay be, for any year of assessment or taxable periodending on or before March 31, 2002, where any tax,levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect ofany offence) forfeiture or fine has been dischargedor refunded in terms of any law referred to in theSchedule to the aforesaid Act notwithstanding thefact that the period for the making of the same haselapsed.

(3) No person shall in terms of this Act, be entitled to anyrefund in respect of any money paid by him or recovered ordeducted in terms of any law referred to in the Schedule ofthe Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act, No. 10 of 2003,or to carry forward any loss in respect of any period endingon or before March 31, 2002 to any subsequent year, byreason of the fact that he is entitled to the amnesty or immunityso granted in respect of his income or part thereof. The amountof undeclared income or the value of the undeclared assets ofsuch person shall be deemed to be the income tax for thepurpose of ascertaining the amount of any such refund or forthe purpose of setting off against any refund claimed by suchperson or for the purpose of setting off against such loss.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20045

(4) Any proceedings, investigation or inquiry which wasbeing conducted by the Commissioner-General or anyAuthority administering the collection and recovery of anytax, levy or penalty, (including any penalty in respect of anyoffence) forfeiture or fine in terms of any law referred to in theSchedule of the Inland Revenue (Special Provisions) Act,No. 10 of 2003, and which has been, stopped, suspended orwithdrawn in terms of the aforesaid Act, shall from the date ofthe coming into operation of this Act, be revived or restoredand continued with, as if such proceedings, investigation orinquiry had not been so stopped, suspended or withdrawn.

5.The Commissioner-General or any officer of theDepartment of Inland Revenue shall preserve and aid inpreserving absolute secrecy in respect of the identity of theperson making the declaration and any matter or thingcontained in any declaration referred to in section 3 of thisAct, as from the date of receipt of such declaration. Allprovisions of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000applicable to the maintenance of official secrecy includingpunishment for the breach of such secrecy under section 172of such Act, shall mutatis mutandis be applicable to adeclaration made under this Act.

6.(1) The Minister may make regulations for thepurposes of carrying out or giving effect to the principlesand provisions of this Act, and in respect of matters that areby this Act required to be prescribed.

(2) Every such regulation shall be published in the Gazetteand shall come into operation on the date of such publicationor on such later date as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every such regulation shall, as soon as convenientafter its publication in the Gazette, be brought beforeParliament for approval. Any such regulation that is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date ofdisapproval, but without prejudice to anything previouslydone thereunder.

Secrecy.

Regulations.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20046

(4) Notification of the date on which a regulation isdeemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

7.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

8.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

assets shall include immovable property, movableproperty, bank balances, treasury bills, fixed deposits,time deposits or any other form of deposit and moneygiven by way of security or loans and cash in hand ;

Commissioner-General shall have the same meaning asin the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000 ;

person shall include a body of persons, a company anda partnership ;

sources of income shall include any income receivedby way of cash or in any other form.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Interpretation.

Inland Revenue (Regulation of Amnesty)Act, No. 10 of 20047

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.