PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE
(AMENDMENT) AGT,
No. 55 OF 1979

[Certified on 30th August, 1979]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 07, 1979

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO.
Price: 35 cents Postage: 25 cents


Agricultural Insurance (Amendment)
Act, No. 55 of 1979 —

[Certified on 30th August, 1979]
L.D.—O 87/78

AN AcT TO AMEND THE AGRICULTURAL InsuRANCcE Law, ‘No. 27
oF 1973. .

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democrabic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows : —

1. This Act may be cited as the Ravtedltarel Insurance Snort titie.
(Amendment) Act, No. 55 of 1979.

2. Section 2 of the Agricultural Insurance Law, No. 27 Replacement
of 1973 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal _ enact- of Law No.
ment”) is hereby repealed and the following new section 27 of 1973.

substituted therefor :—

‘ Establish- 2. (1) There shall be established a Board

reat, Which shall be called the Agricultural Insu-

a ae rance Board (hereinafter referred as “the
oara,

Board”).

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned
to it by subsection (1), be a body corporate
and shall have perpetual succession and a
common seal and may sue and be sued in
such name.

(3) The Board shall consist of such
number of members, being not less than
theree and not more than seven, as may be
appointed by the Minister of whom—

(a) one shall be an officer of the Insurance
Corporation of. Ceylon nominated
by its Chairman ;

‘(b) one shall be an officer of the People’s

Bank nominated by the Chairman:

of the Board of Directors ‘of that
Bank ; and

(c) one shall be an officer of the Bank of
Ceylon nominated by the Chairman
of the Board of Directors of that

Bank. ©

(4) The Minister shall appoint one of the
members to be the Chairman of the Board. ’.
2 | 42199—12,825 (79/09 |


2 Agricultural Insurance (Amendment) ©
Act, No. 55 of 1979

Replacement 3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is hereby
of section 3 : : dog :
of the repealed and the following new section is substituted
principal therefor :—
enactment.
‘Members of 3. (1) Every member shall, subject to the
the Board, &c.

provisions of subsections (2) and (3), hold
office for a period of three years from the
date of his appointment :

Provided that a member appointed in place
of a member who dies, resigns or otherwise
vacates office, shall, unless he earlier resigns,
dies of otherwise vacates office, hold office for
the unexpired part of the term of office of
the member whom he succeeds.

(2) Any member may resign from the
Board by letter addressed to the Minister.

(3) Any member may be removed from
office by the Minister without assigning a
reason and such removal snall not be called
in question in any court of law nor shall

' such member be entitled to any compensa-
tion for any loss or damage suffered by him,
by reason of such removal.

(4) Where a member becomes by reason of
illness or other infirnity or absence from Sri
Lanka temporarily unable to perform the
duties of his office, the Minister may appoint
another person to act as member in his place.

(5) All members of the Board shall be
remunerated in such manner and at such
rates and shall be subject to such conditions
of service as may be determined by the
Minister with the concurrence of the Minister
in charge of the subject of Finance.

(6) A member shall vacate ‘office by death,
_ removal, resignation or effluxion of time.

(7) Every member shall, unless he is
removed from office, be eligible for re-
appointment.

(8) The quorum for the meetings of the
Board shall be three members ‘of the Board,
and subject as aforesaid, the Board may
regulatae its own procedure.

(9) The Board may act notwithstanding
any vacancy amongst its members. ”.
