PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00 Postage : Rs. 12.50

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 21, 2007

[Certified on 18th September, 2007]

Printed on the Order of Government

SRI LANKA SUSTAINABLE ENERGYAUTHORITY ACT, No. 35 OF 2007

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 20071

[Certified on 18th September, 2007]

L.D.O. 40/2006

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKASUSTAINABLE ENGERGY AUTHORITY; TO DEVELOP RENEWABLEENERGY RESOURCES; TO DECLARE ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AREAS;

TO IMPLEMENT ENERGY EFFICIENCY MEASURES AND CONSERVATION

PROGRAMMES; TO PROMOTE ENERGY SECURITY, RELIABILITY AND

COST EFFECTIVENESS IN ENERGY DELIVERY AND INFORMATION

MANAGEMENT; TO REPEAL THE ENERGY CONSERVATION FUND ACT,NO. 2 OF 1985 AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka SustainableEnergy Authority Act, No. 35 of 2007, and shall come intooperation on such date as may be appointed by the Ministerby Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to asthe appointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SRI LANKA SUSTAINABLEENERGY AUTHORITY

2.(1) There shall be established an authority whichshall be called the Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy Authority(hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe Sri LankaSustainableEnergyAuthority.

2Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

3.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Authority shall be vested in a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the Board) which shall consistof:

(a)the following ex-officio members

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Power and Energy orhis nominee;

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Local Governmentand Provincial Councils or his nominee;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Industries andInvestment Promotion or his nominee;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Lands or his nominee;

(v)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Agriculture or hisnominee;

(vi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Plantation Industriesor his nominee;

(vii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Environment or hisnominee;

(viii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Irrigation andMahaweli Development or his nominee;

(ix)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Transport or hisnominee;

Constitution ofthe Board ofManagement ofthe Authority.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 20073

(x)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance or hisnominee;

(xi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister incharge of the subject of Science andTechnology or his nominee; and

(xii)the Director-General of the Public UtilitiesCommission of Sri Lanka:

Provided that where two or more of the subjectsspecified in sub-paragraphs (i) to (xi) of thisparagraph are assigned to or remain in charge of asingle Minister, the Secretary to the Ministry of thatMinister or where more than one Secretary isappointed to such Ministry, then one of suchSecretaries alone, shall become a member of theBoard under this paragraph;

(b)the following persons to be appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to as appointedmembers)-

(i)a representative of the Sri Lanka EnergyManagers Association, nominated by suchAssociation;

(ii)a person to represent the development financebanks in Sri Lanka, nominated by theGovernor of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka ;

(iii)a person to represent the renewable energyindustry;

(iv)a representative of the Ceylon Chamber ofCommerce, nominated by such Chamber;

4Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(v)three persons who are qualified and haveproven knowledge and experience in the fieldof business, engineering, finance, managementor law;

(vi)a person to represent the rural energy servicesector; and

(vii)a person having experience in the area ofrenewable energy development or energyconservation and efficiency, who shall be theChairman of the Board.

(2) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall applyto and in relation to the members of the Board, its meetingsand the seal of the Board.

4. The objects of the Authority shall be to

(a)identify, assess and develop renewable energyresources with a view to enhancing energysecurity and thereby derive economic andsocial benefits to the country;

(b)identify, promote, facilitate, implement andmanage energy efficiency improvement andenergy conservation programmes for use ofenergy in domestic, commercial, agricultural,transport, industrial and any other relevantsector;

(c)promote security, reliability and cost-effectiveness of energy delivery to the country,by policy development and analysis andrelated information management; and

(d)ensure that adequate funds are available forthe Authority to implement its objects,consistent with minimum economic cost ofenergy and energy security for the nation.

Objects of theAuthority.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 20075

PART II

POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD

5.The Board shall exercise, perform and discharge thefollowing powers, duties and functions :

(a)assist the Minister in the formulation of the nationalpolicy on energy;

(b)identify, conserve and manage all renewable energyresources and appropriate conversion technologies,conversion and utilization norms and practices,including the :

(i)preparation, maintenance and updating of aninventory of all renewable energy resourcesin Sri Lanka, indicating the geographicallocation of sites, exploitable potential, landownership and existing infrastructurefacilities; and

(ii)preparation, maintenance and updating of aninventory of all renewable energytechnologies, indicating their level of maturityfor commercial deployment and typicalperformance data;

(c)develop a conducive environment for encouragingand promoting investments for renewable energydevelopment in the country, including :

(i)development of guidelines on renewableenergy projects and disseminating themamong prospective investors;

(ii)development of guidelines in collaborationwith relevant state agencies, on evaluationand approval of on-grid and off-gridrenewable energy projects;

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

6Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(iii)entertainment of applications for carrying onof on-grid and off-grid renewable energyprojects;

(iv)providing assistance to investors byformulating project proposals in new types ofrenewable energy resources and technologies;and

(v)exploring avenues and facilitating the processof overcoming technical or any otherlimitations that retard the growth of renewableenergy development, in accordance with thenational policy on energy;

(d)analyse and recommend policies and prepare plansaimed at promoting and developing renewableenergy resources, including :

(i)preparing long-term development plans withinterim targets for specific technologies andpromotion and facilitation of theimplementation of such plans; and

(ii)devising incentive mechanisms based onprinciples of competitiveness and specifictechnologies based on actual energyproduction;

(e)develop a conducive environment for theencouragement and promotion of investments inrenewable energy development, energy efficiencyimprovement and conservation, rural energyservices and for ensuring the sustainability and well-being of the energy sector in the country,including :

(i)the promotion of programmes to mobilisefunds for renewable energy development,promotion of energy efficiency, improvement

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 20077

and conservation and rural energy servicesthrough credit enhancement and otherfacilities ; and

(ii)the provision of funds, including subsidiesand seed capital for pilot projects in renewableenergy development, energy efficiencyimprovement, conservation and rural energyservices that reduce the dependence onimported energy;

(f)provide technical and financial assistance forcapacity building of the energy sector stakeholdersand for research and development activities carriedout by any stakeholder, consistent with the objectsof the Authority;

(g)function as a National Technical Service Agency ofClean Development Mechanism (CDM) in Sri Lankathat provides technical assistance to the DesignatedNational Agency for Clean DevelopmentMechanism and project developers, on energysector clean development project activities,including

(i)design, develop and implement innovativeschemes that assist project developers toovercome barriers and access commercialfinancing; and

(ii)facilitate and assist project developers toaccess concessionary finances made availableunder any environment protection initiativeby any organisation;

(h)conduct preliminary studies and investigations inany geographical area to ascertain the renewableenergy potential;

8Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(i)collect necessary data and carry out renewableenergy resource planning and assessment within anyDevelopment Area, subject to any directions thatmay be given by the Minster;

(j)obtain relevant data required for renewable energyplanning and assessment, from any public or privateinstitutions or any other sources;

(k) monitor, refine and follow up the approval processof on-grid and off-grid renewable energy projects inconsultation with relevant agencies and to providetechnical and other logistical assistance andfacilities to such agencies to simplify the proceduralrequirements and to accelerate the project approvingmechanism;

(l)facilitate the access to green funds for investors inon-grid and off-grid renewable energy projects, forenergy efficiency improvement and conservationmeasures and rural energy services;

(m)provide funds and design, develop and implementcredit enhancement facilities, such as loan guaranteeschemes and access to commercial credit forinvestors in on-grid and off-grid renewable energyprojects, investments in energy efficiencyimprovement and conservation and knowledgemanagement in the energy sector;

(n)enter into joint schemes with any person approvedby the Minister, to achieve the objects of theAuthority;

(o)render professional services and undertake projectsconnected with the development of renewableenergy resources and the improvement of energyefficiency, energy conservation and demand

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 20079

management for and on behalf of state and privatesector organizations, and charge as fees suchamounts as may be determine by the Board; and

(p)initiate and implement any other programmes anddo any other acts as may be necessary or conduciveto the attainment of the objects of the Authority.

6.(1) The Board may subject to such conditions asmay be specified in writing, delegate to the Chairman of theBoard or to any officer or employee of the Authority, any ofits powers, duties or functions under this Act, and theChairman or such officer or employee shall exercise, performor discharge such power, duty or function subject to anyspecial or general directions that may be issued by the Board.

(2) Notwithstanding any delegation made undersubsection (1), the Board may exercise, perform or dischargeany such power, duty or function so delegated.

7.(1) The Director-General shall within six months ofthe appointed date, cause a survey and a resource assessmentto be commenced of all renewable energy resources in thecountry and prepare a renewable energy resources inventoryand a renewable energy resource map in respect of eachDevelopment Area.

(2) In preparing the renewable energy resource map andthe renewable energy resource inventory under subsection(1), the Director-General shall have regard to relevant data ,information, maps, documents or reports collected orcompiled by Government Departments, Institutions and anyother agencies or persons and it shall be the duty of the Headsof such Departments, Institutions or other agencies or personsto furnish any such data, information, maps, documents orreports as may be reasonably required by the Director-Generalfor the purpose of preparing renewable energy resource mapsand renewable energy resource inventories.

Delegation ofpowers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

Preparation ofresource mapsand renewableenergy resourcesinventory.

10Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

8.(1) The Director-General shall not later than threeyears after the appointed date, submit to the Board acomprehensive Renewable Energy Resource DevelopmentPlan (hereinafter referred to as the Plan) based on the resultsof the survey and the renewable resource assessment carriedout under section 7.

(2) The Board shall, within thirty days from the date ofreceipt of such Plan, make modifications, if any, to such Planand submit the same to the Minister.

(3) The Minister shall by a notice published in onenewspaper each in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages,notify the place and times at which the Plan submitted to himunder subsection (2) is available for inspection by the publicand invite the public to make its comments, if any, thereon,within thirty days of the publication of such notice.

(4) At the end of the period of thirty days referred to insubsection (3), the Minister may, having regard to anycomments submitted to him by the public under thatsubsection, provisionally approve the Plan subject to suchmodifications, if any, as he may consider necessary and shallsubmit the same to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval.

(5) Upon approval of the Plan by the Cabinet ofMinisters, the Minister shall cause such Plan to be publishedin the Gazette and it shall come into operation on the date ofsuch publication or on such later date as may be specifiedtherein.

(6) The Plan shall be revised by the Board once in everythree years commencing from the date of coming intooperation of the Plan, and the provisions of subsections (2),(3), (4) and (5) shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respectof every such revision.

(7) The Minister may on the recommendation of theBoard, prescribe such measures as may be necessary to giveeffect to the Plan and to the strategies referred to therein.

RenewableEnergyResourceDevelopmentPlans.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200711

PART III

PROJECT APPROVING COMMITTEE AND ADVISORY COMMITTEES

9. (1) The Board may from time to time establish suchAdvisory Committees as it may consider necessary orappropriate, consisting of such persons selected from amongpersons having academic or professional qualifications orrepresenting professional institutions or non-governmentalorganizations, to assist it in the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, duties and functions under thisAct.

(2) The Board may assign to an Advisory Committeeestablished under subsection (1), such of its powers, duties orfunctions as it may consider necessary, but however the Boardshall not be divested of any such power, duty or function soassigned. The Board shall have the power to amend or revokeany decision made by an Advisory Committee.

(3) The members of an Advisory Committee appointedunder subsection (1) may be paid out of the Fund of theAuthority, such allowances as the Minister may determinewith the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance.

10.(1) There shall be established a Project ApprovingCommittee which shall consist of the following members :

(a)Director-General of the Central EnvironmentalAuthority appointed under the NationalEnvironmental Act, No. 47 of 1980;

(b)Conservator-General of the Forest ConservationDepartment appointed under the Forest Ordinance(Chapter 451);

(c)Director-General of the Wild life ConservationDepartment Appointed under the Fauna; and FloraProtection Ordinance (Chapter 469);

Appointment ofAdvisoryCommittees.

ProjectApprovingCommittee.

12Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(d)Director-General of the Irrigation Departmentappointed under Irrigation Ordinance (Chpater 453);

(e)Director-General of the Mahaweli Authority of SriLanka established by the Mahaweli Authority of SriLanka Act, No. 23 of 1979;

(f)General-Manager of the Ceylon Electricity Boardappointed under the Ceylon Electrity Board Act,No. 17 of 1969;

(g)Land Commissioner appointed under the LandDevelopment Ordinance (Chpater 464);

(h)Director-General of the Board of Investment of SriLanka appointed under the Lanka Board ofInvestment of Sri Lanka Law No. 4 of 1978;

(i)Director-General of the Coast ConservationDepartment appointed under the Coast ConservationAct, No. 57 of 1981;

(j)Director-General of the Authority;

(k)Divisional Secretary of the Divisional SecretarysDivision within which a development project is tobe implemented; and

(l)Chief Secretary of the Provincial Council establishedfor the province within which a developmentproject is to be implemented.

(2) The Minister may nominate one person from amongthe members of the Committee, other than the member referredto in paragraph (k) of subsection (1), as the Chairman of theCommittee.

(3) The Director-General of the Authority shall function asthe convenor of all meetings of the Committee.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200713

11.The functions of the Committee shall be to

(a)advise the Board on the formulation of technical,environmental and economic guidelines forsubsequent adoption by the Committee, in grantingprovisional approval and final approval in respectof on-grid and off-grid renewable energy projects ;

(b)evaluate and assess the possible environmentalhazards and other consequences that may arise dueto the implementation of on-grid and off-gridrenewable energy projects;

(c)impose conditions to be fulfilled by an applicant asmeasures to mitigate such environmental hazards,technical and other socio-economic consequences,in the event of a final approval being granted for anon-grid renewable energy project or approval beinggranted for an off-grid renewable energy project;

(d)grant provisional and final approval on applicationsmade for the implementation of on-grid renewableenergy projects and approval for off-grid renewableenergy projects;

(e)monitor and supervise the implementation of on-grid and off-grid renewable energy projects with aview to prevent any environmental hazards and othersocio-economic consequences being caused as aresult of the implementation of such project; and

(f)review and examine periodically the renewableenergy policy, the renewable energy resource plansand renewable energy development strategy inoperation and where necessary, to recommend tothe Board changes in such policy, plans andstrategies.

Functions of theCommittee.

14Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

PART 1V

DECLARATION OF ENERGY DEVELOPMENT AREA

12.(1) The Minister may, subject to the provisions ofsubsection (3) and having taken into consideration therecommendations made by the Board that any area is suitablefor the conservation and management of renewable energyresources or is suitable for the promotion of renewable energydevelopment projects, by Order published in the Gazette,declare such area as an Energy Development Area (in this Actreferred to as Development Area).

(2) The Minister shall prior to the declaration of any areaas a Development Area under sub-section (1), consult suchMinister or Ministers or any Minister of any Provincial Council,whom he considers necessary or appropriate to consult in thedeclaration of such area as a Development Area.

(3) An Order made under subsection (1) declaring an areaas a Development Area, shall define that area by setting outthe metes and bounds of such Area.

13.The Authority shall be responsible for conservingand managing all renewable energy resources within aDevelopment Area and take all necessary measures to promoteand develop such energy resources, with a view to obtainingthe maximum economic utilization of those resources.

14.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin any written law, an owner or occupier of any land situatedwithin a Development Area shall not, except with the writtenapproval of the Authority and subject to any terms andconditions that may be imposed by the Authority for thatpurpose, do any act or permit any other person to do any act,which may change the form of any renewable resourcesituated within such Development Area or cause the depletionof any such resource in such a manner or to such an extent,that the economic viability of developing that resource issubstantially reduced.

Authorityresponsible forconservingrenewableenergy resourceswithin aDevelopmentArea.

Owner oroccupierprohibited fromcertain acts.

Declaration of aEnergyDevelopmentArea.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200715

15.(1) Subject to as hereinafter provided and the rightsgranted to any person by a permit issued under section 18 orsection 25, the absolute ownership of all renewable energyresources on or below the surface of the land or the air spaceof the land within a Development Area, is hereby vested inthe Republic, notwithstanding any right of ownership orotherwise which any person may have to such renewableenergy resources within that Area.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), anyperson who is deprived of his right of ownership or otherwiseto a renewable energy resources on or below the surface ofhis land or the air space of such land by virtue of the provisionsof that subsection, shall be entitled to the payment ofcompensation as may be determined by an AdvisoryCommittee, appointed by the Board for that purpose undersection 9 of this Act. In the computation of the amount ofcompensation payable under this subsection, the personconcerned shall be given an opportunity of being heard bysuch Advisory Committee.

PART V

ON-GRID AND OFF-GRID RENEWABLE ENERGY PROJECTS

16. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions in any other lawto the contrary and subject to the provisions of section 71, noperson shall engage in or carry on an on-grid renewable energyproject for the generation and supply of power within aDevelopment Area, except under the authority of a permitissued in that behalf by the Authority.

(2) A person who is desirous of engaging in and carryingon an on-grid renewable energy project within a DevelopmentArea, shall make an application to the Director-General forthe same in the prescribed form together with the prescribedfee and the following documents :

(a)a copy of a map of the geographical location of theproposed project;

Republic to haveownership torenewableenergy resourceswithin aDevelopmentArea.

On-gridrenewableenergy projects.

16Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(b)a brief description of the project, including theamount of power to be generated;

(c)the total estimated cost and financial model,including optimization criteria adopted;

(d)proof of availability of adequate finances or themanner in which the required finances for the projectare to be obtained;

(e)project location i. e. Weir and Power House relativeto river or stream system if it is a Hydro Power project,Wind Turbine and Structures if it is a Wind powerproject, Energy Plantation, Power House and WaterSource if it is a Biomass Project and ConversionFacility relative to energy resource, if it is any otherproject ; and

(f)a statement explaining how the applicant intendsto evacuate electricity generated and the point atwhich the generator will be connected to the nationalgrid and the geographical area traversed by thepower line constructed for this purpose.

(3) On receipt of an application under subsection (2), theDirector- General shall forthwith register such applicationalong with the documents in a register maintained for thatpurpose, and issue a registration number to the applicant.

17.(1) The Director-General shall after carrying out suchpreliminary screening of the proposed project as he considersnecessary and in consultation with the Ceylon ElectricityBoard, submit the registered application together with hisobservations on the proposed project, to the Committee forits approval.

(2) The Committee shall where it considers itappropriate :

(a)grant provisional approval for the project which shallbe communicated forthwith by the Director- General

Provisionalapproval to begranted.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200717

to the applicant in the prescribed form, with a requestto submit such documents and other information asshall be prescribed for the purpose, within sixmonths of such communication being received bythe applicant; or

(b)refuse to grant provisional approval for the projectwhich shall be communicated forthwith by theDirector-General to the applicant, stating the reasonsfor such refusal.

(3) An extension of the period given for the submission ofdocuments and information under paragraph (a) of subsection(1) may be granted by the Director- General where requestedfor, upto a maximum of another six months period.

(4) A provisional approval granted under paragraph (a) ofsubsection (1) shall be valid for a period of one year from thedate on which such approval is granted and shall standcancelled automatically, if the documents and otherinformation requested for is not submitted prior to the expiryof the period of one year.

18.(1) The Director-General shall upon receiving thedocuments and other information requested for, forthwithplace before the Committee such documents and informationtogether with the registered application and hisrecommendations, to be considered by the Committee forthe purpose of granting the final approval for the proposedproject.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Committee not later than onemonth of the receipt of the documents and information sentby the Director-General under subsection (1), to make itsdecision on the same, by

(a)approving the application and requesting theDirector-General to forthwith communicate to theapplicant their approval by the issue of a permit inthe prescribed form and subject to such terms andconditions as may be prescribed; or

Final approval.

18Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(b)refusing to approve the application and requestingthe Director-General to forthwith communicate tothe applicant of such refusal, stating the reasons forthe same.

(3) The Committee shall record its reasons for arriving atits decision under subsection (2) in the register maintainedby the Director-General under subsection (3) of section 16.

(4) A permit issued on approval of an application underparagraph (a) of subsection (2) shall be valid for a period oftwenty years, provided that the developer commences theproject and begins to generate electricity within two years ofbeing issued with the permit.

(5) At the end of the period of twenty years, the Boardmay at the request of the developer and in consultation withthe Committee, extend the period, of validity of the permitby a further period, not exceeding twenty more years.

19.(1) A developer shall, for the period during whichthe permit issued is in operation, be liable to pay annually tothe Authority as a royalty on renewable energy resourcesbeing utilized for the project, such charge as shall bedetermined by the Minister in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) All sums of money paid as a charge under subsection(1), shall be credited by the Authority to the Energy Fundestablished under section 46.

20. Where

(a)provisional approval for a project is refused by theCommittee under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofsection 17;

(b)grant of final approval for a project is refused by theCommittee under paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofsection 18; or

(c)a permit is cancelled under section 21,

Payment ofroyalty.

Authority not tobe liable to paydamages or costof anyexpenditureincurred.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200719

the Authority shall not be liable to pay any damages orreimburse the cost of any expenditure that may have beenincurred by an applicant or the developer, as the case may be,in providing the documents and other information requestedfor under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of section 17, or anyexpenses incurred by a developer on any work commencedin the project after the permit was granted under paragraph(a) of subsection (2) of section 18.

21.(1) A permit issued under paragraph (a) of subsection(2) of section 18 may be cancelled by the Director-Generalwith the approval of the Board, where the developer

(a)fails to commence the project in respect of whichsuch permit was issued and begin generation ofpower within two years of its issue; or

(b)acts in contravention of or fails to comply with, anyterms and conditions subject to which such permitwas issued.

(2) The Board may before it approves the cancellation ofa permit issued, grant an opportunity to the developerconcerned to show cause why the permit should not becancelled and may, where it considers appropriate andreasonable, grant time within which the developer may berequired to comply with any requirement or any terms orconditions of the permit or refrain from acting in contraventionof any term or condition, as the case may be, which has givenrise to the proposed cancellation of the permit.

22. (1) Any person who is aggrieved by:

(a)a refusal to grant provisional approval to anapplication;

(b)a refusal to grant final approval to an application;or

Cancellation of apermit.

Appeals againstrefusal to grantapproval orcancellation of apermit.

20Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(c)the cancellation of a permit under section 21,

may, within one month of the receipt of the communicationinforming him of such refusal or the date of the cancellation,as the case may be, appeal against such refusal or cancellationto the Board.

(2) The Board may prior to arriving at a decision on anyappeal made under subsection (1), obtain the advice andobservations of an Advisory Committee established for thatpurpose by the Board under section 9.

(3) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of theBoard given on any appeal made to it under subsection (1),may appeal against such decision to the Court of Appealwithin fourteen days of the date on which such decision wascommunicated to such person.

(4) Until rules are made under Article 136 of theConstitution pertaining to appeals under this section, therules made under that Article pertaining to an application byway of revision to the Court of Appeal, shall apply in respectof every appeal made under subsection (3) of this section.

23.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions in any other lawto the contrary, no person shall engage in or carry on an off-grid renewable energy project for the generation and supplyof power, except under the authority of a permit issued in thatbehalf by the Authority.

(2) Any person who is desirous of engaging in an off-gridrenewable energy project shall make an application to theDirector-General for the same in the prescribed form, togetherwith the prescribed fee and the following documents :

(a)a copy of a map of the geographical location of theproposed project;

(b)a brief description of the project, including theamount of power to be generated and its totalestimated cost;

Off-gridrenewableenergy projects.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200721

(c)the total estimated cost and the financial model,including optimization criteria adopted;

(d)proof of availability of adequate finances or themanner in which the required finances for the projectare to be obtained;

(e)project location i.e. Weir and Power House relative toriver or stream system if it is a Hydro Power project,Wind Turbine and Structures if it is a Wind powerproject, Energy Plantation, Power House and WaterSource if it is a Biomass Project and Conversion Facilityrelative to energy resource, if it is any other project ;

(f)detailed feasibility study report of the project, alongwith the following :

(i)a detailed engineering design of the project;

(ii)a socio-economic survey of those who willbenefit from the project;

(iii)a report from Central Environment Authority,established by the National EnvironmentalAct, No. 47 of 1981 pertaining to the likelyenvironmental consequences of the project;and

(iv)a time bound action plan as to the manner inwhich the project is to be implemented;

(g)a copy each of the applications submitted by theprospective beneficiaries of the project, for thepurpose of being registered as an Off-Grid EnergyConsumers Society with the relevant ProvincialMinistry in charge of energy;

(h)a copy of the Order published in the Gazette bywhich an exemption was granted from therequirement of obtaining a generation licence underthe Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002;

22Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(i)a copy of the Order published in the Gazette bywhich an exemption was granted from therequirement of obtaining a distribution licence underthe Electricity Reform Act, No. 28 of 2002, todistribute generated power to the premises of thoseconsumers living within the geographical locationreferred to in paragraph (a) ;

(j)a statement explaining how the applicant intendsto distribute the power generated and the names ofsuch consumers who have consented to obtaining apower supply from the applicant and a schematicdiagram of the distribution system relative to thegeographical area in which the respective premisesof such consumers are located, for conveying thegenerated power to such premises; and

(k)any other information which the Committee mayrequire.

(3) On receipt of an application made under subsection(1), the Director-General shall forthwith register suchapplication along with the documents received in a registermaintained for the purpose and issue a registration numberto the applicant.

24.(1) The Director-General shall within thirty days ofthe registration of an application under subsection (3) ofsection 23, :

(a)obtain the concurrence of the relevant ProvincialMinistry and the Divisional Secretary of theDivisional Secretarys Division within which suchproject is to be implemented; and

(b)carry out such preliminary screening of the projectand obtain confirmation from the entity responsiblefor power distribution in the area, that a gridextension is not planned for the particular locationfor the next five years.

Procedure forobtainingrelevantconcurrence andconfirmation foroff-gridrenewableenergy projects.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200723

(2) The Director-General shall submit to the Committeefor its consideration, the application along with theconcurrence and confirmation obtained by him undersubsection (1) and his observation on the availability of thesite for construction, technical aspect of the project and thetechnical and financial capability of the applicant.

(3) The Committee shall make a decision on theapplication submitted to it under subsection (2) asexpeditiously as possible, but not later than thirty days fromthe date of receipt of such application and communicate itsdecision to the Director-General, giving reasons for the same.The Director-General shall record the decision of theCommittee in the register maintained under subsection (3) ofsection 23.

25.The Director-General shall on receipt of the decisionmade by the Committee under subsection (3) of section 24:

(a)where the Committee approves the application,issue forthwith to the applicant a permit in theprescribed form, subject to such terms and conditionsas may be prescribed; or

(b)where the Committee does not approve theapplication, forthwith inform the applicant of suchrefusal stating the reasons for the same.

26.(1) The period of validity of a permit issued underparagraph (a) of section 25 of this Act on approval of anapplication shall, having regard to the nature of the projectand the capacity of power generated, be as prescribed.

(2) The permit holder shall be required to pay annuallysuch charge as may be determined by the Minister inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, during the period of validity of the permit issued.

(3 All sums of money paid as a charge under subsection(2), shall be credited by the Authority to the Energy Fundestablished under section 46.

Decision of theCommittee to becommunicated tothe applicant.

Period ofvalidity of apermit andcharges to bepaid.

24Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

27.(1) A permit issued under paragraph (a) of section25 may be cancelled by the Director-General with theapproval of the Board, where the permit holder

(a)fails to commence the project in respect of whichsuch permit was issued and begin generation ofpower within two years of its issue; or

(b)acts in contravention of or fails to conform with,any terms or conditions subject to which such permitwas issued.

(2) The Board may before it approves the cancellationof a permit issued, grant an opportunity to the permit holderconcerned to show cause why the permit should not becancelled and may, where it considers appropriate andreasonable, grant time within which the permit holder maybe required to comply with any requirement or any terms orconditions of the permit or refrain from acting in contraventionof any term or condition, as the case may be, which has givenrise to the proposed cancellation of the permit.

28.(1) Any person who is aggrieved by

(a)the refusal of the Committee to grant a permitfor an off-grid renewable energy project; or

(b)the cancellation under section 27 of a permitissued,

may appeal against such decision to the Board.

(2) Any person who is aggrieved by the decision of theBoard on any appeal made under subsection (1), may appealagainst such decision to the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister, whose decision thereon shall be final.

29.(1) It shall be the duty of every developer or permitholder to whom a permit is issued under this Part of this Act,to take all measures necessary to use the renewable energyresource being utilized for the project, with due diligenceand extreme care.

Appeals againstrefusal orcancellation of apermit.

Developer orpermit holder toexercise duediligence.

Cancellation of apermit.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200725

(2) Where any damage is caused to a renewable energyresource utilized for any project due to the negligence orlack of due diligence of a developer or permit holder, as thecase may be, such developer or permit holder shall be liableto pay to the Authority as compensation, such amount asmay be determined by the Minister in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

PART VI

ACQUISITION AND LEASING OF IMMOVABLE PROPERTY FOR PROJECTS

30.(1) Where any land or any interest in a land situatedin an area declared as a Development Area under section 12is required by the Authority for any purpose of the Authority,such purpose shall for the purposes of the Land AcquisitionAct (Chapter 460) be deemed to be a public purpose, and theland or interest therein may accordingly be acquired underthe Land Acquisition Act by the Government for the Authority,and the provisions of that Act shall, save as otherwise providedin subsection (2) of this section, apply for the purposes of theacquisition of that land or the interest therein.

(2) In the case of any acquisition under subsection (1)where the public notice of the intention to acquire that landor interest therein is published as required by the LandAcquisition Act, at any time within a period of five yearscommencing from the date of declaring an area as aDevelopment Area, notwithstanding anything to the contraryin the Land Acquisition Act, the market value of the land orthe interest therein for the purpose of determining the amountof compensation to be paid in respect of that land or theinterest therein, shall be deemed to be the market value whichthat land or the interest therein would have had on the date ofdeclaring such area as a Development Area, increased byfifty per centum of the difference between that market valueand

(a)in the case of any land or interest therein in respectof which an Order under the proviso to section 38 ofthe Land Acquisition Act has not been made, themarket value of the land or interest therein as on the

Compulsoryacquisition ofland for theAuthority undertheLand AcquisitionAct.

26Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

date of publication in the Gazette of the notice undersection 7 of that Act; or

(b)in the case of any land or interest therein in respectof which an Order under the proviso to section 38 ofthe Land Acquisition Act has been made, the marketvalue of the land or interest therein as on the date ofpublication of such Order in the Gazette.

31.Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for any purpose of the Authority, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leaseof property may be made under section 6 of the Crown LandsOrdinance (Chapter 454) and accordingly the provisions ofthat Ordinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of suchproperty made to the Authority.

32.(1) the Authority may with the approval of theMinister, grant to a developer or a permit holder, as the casemay be, by way of a lease, any land or interest in land held bythe Authority for the purpose of any project for which a permithas been issued under Part V of this Act, subject to such termsand conditions as may be determined by the Minister,including the amount to be paid as lease rental, and inparticular, but without prejudice to the generality of theforegoing provisions of this section, a condition to the effectthat the lease agreement may be cancelled or amended in theevent of a failure to comply with any term or conditionspecified in such agreement, or in the event of any moneydue to the Authority under such lease agreement remainingunpaid, for any such period as may be specified therein.

(2) Nothing in the Crown Lands Ordinance shall affect orbe deemed or construed to affect the grant of a lease of anystate land, held by the Authority.

(3) In the event of a cancellation of a permit issued to adeveloper or a permit holder to whom any land or interest inany land was granted under a lease agreement undersubsection (1) of this section, such lease agreement shall,

State propertyto be madeavailable tothe Authority.

Lease ofland or interestin land held byAuthority.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200727

notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the leaseagreement or in any other law, be deemed to be cancelledwith effect from the date of the cancellation of such permit.

33.Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law tothe contrary, no action shall lie against the Authority or anyofficer or employee of such Authority in respect of thecancellation of a lease agreement under subsection (3) ofsection 32.

34.(1) A developer or a permit holder, as the case maybe, to whom any land has been leased by the Authority undersection 32 of this Act, shall be required within six months ofthe expiry of the period of validity of such permit or wherethe permit is cancelled, within six months of the date of suchcancellation, to remove all movable property, including anyfixtures attached to the land, which belongs to such developeror permit holder, from the location or site in which the projectwas commenced or carried on, in such manner as may beprescribed.

(2) The developer or the permit holder, as the case may be,shall be liable to pay to the Authority such compensation asmay be determined by the Minister, for any damage causedto the renewable energy resource or to the land leased, due tothe negligence of such developer or the permit holder, as thecase may be, in removing his property from the location orsite under subsection (1).

PART VII

ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND CONSERVATION PROGRAMMES

35.(1) The Board shall be responsible for the adoptionand implementation of measures to conserve energy andimprove efficiency in harnessing energy, processing,conversion, transportation, storage, co-generation and heatrecovery techniques, in the use of energy in all consumersectors.

Removal ofmovableproperty fromlocation or site.

Energyefficiency andconservationprogrammes.

No action to liein respect of thecancellation of alease agreement.

28Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(2) For the purpose of carrying out its responsibilitiesunder subsection (1), the Board shall :

(a)identify, analyse, develop and recommend policymeasures which can be implemented by allconsumer sectors, to prevent wastage of energy usedby them in their various activities;

(b)promote and facilitate the implementation of energyefficiency and energy conservation policy measures,by organizing seminars, workshops and courses inenergy efficiency, demand management orconservation;

(c)educate and provide information to the publicregarding energy demand management andconservation;

(d)improve any or all aspects of energy demandmanagement which promotes rational use of energyand reduces the use of non-renewable energysources in Sri Lanka;

(e)identify the available technologies and facilitatedeployment of such technologies for improvingefficiency in the harnessing of energy, processing,conversion, transportation, storage and use ofenergy;

(f)implement energy labeling programs for appliancesand devices and establish benchmarks;

(g)specify and enforce standards, norms, codes,measurement and verification protocols andbuilding codes, for the efficient use of energy andfor reduction of wastage of energy in buildings; and

(h)initiate, promote, conduct and co-ordinate research,surveys and investigations in regard to specificaspects of energy efficiency, conservation anddemand management.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200729

1-25T 7

36.(1) The Board may from time to time by regulationsmade in that behalf, establish specific energy consumptionbenchmarks to be complied with by all energy consumers.

(2) For the purpose of ensuring that the benchmarksestablished under subsection (1) are being complied with,the Board may, where it considers it necessary:-

(a)enter and inspect with the consent of relevant personsconcerned, any premises, compound or facility,collect information, verification of information andconduct any other investigations;

(b)direct any person to furnish information relating toenergy utilization, production, procurement andsales;

(c)monitor, with the consent of all relevant personsconcerned, energy consumption in buildings andindustrial premises and monitor fuel efficiency ofland vehicles, ships and aircrafts, in association withrelevant agencies;

(d)specify in association with relevant agencies,energy consumption limits and energyperformance standards of appliances and direct thedisplay of such particulars on labels attached toappliances, in such manner as may be prescribedfrom time to time;

(e)control the manufacture, import, sale or purchase ofappliances which do not conform to thespecifications prescribed under paragraph (d);

(f)enforce limits and codes of practices for existingand proposed buildings, industrial premises, landvehicles, ships and aircraft, in association withrelevant agencies; and

(g)develop educational material and recommendeducational curricula, on efficient and rational useof energy and conservation of energy.

Establishment ofenergyconsumptionbenchmarks.

30Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

37.(1) Where the Board is of the view that any personor categories of persons (including any public body), isconsuming unacceptable levels of energy in their respectivepremises or installations, over and above the benchmarksestablished by the Board under section 36 of this Act, suchperson or category of persons may be called upon to submitto the Board a detailed audit report compiled by anaccredited energy auditor and a detailed plan of action onremedial measures that are proposed to be taken by suchperson or category of persons, as the case may be, to reducethe energy consumption to acceptable levels.

(2) The failure to submit a detailed audit report and adetailed plan of action when called upon to do so by theBoard under subsection (1) and to implement such plan onapproval by the Board, shall be an offence under this Act.

(3) Where any person or category of persons who has beencalled upon to submit to the Board a detailed plan of actionunder subsection (1), incurs in the course of theimplementation of such plan, any expenses which is beyondthe anticipation of a reasonable person, such person orcategory of persons shall be entitled to the payment of areasonable amount as compensation, which shall bedetermined by the Board in agreement with the person orcategory of persons concerned.

38. (1) The Board shall appoint and rank persons havingsuch qualifications as prescribed, to be

(a)Energy Managers, who shall assist in promotingpractices relating to efficient energy management;

(b)Energy Auditors, who shall be qualified to conductenergy audits; and

(c)Energy Service Providers,

and issue to those appointed, a Certificate of Accreditation.

Consumption ofenergy beyondacceptablelimits.

Accreditationof energymanagers,energy auditorsetc.,

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200731

(2) Every person who is issued with a Certificate undersubsection (1) shall be required to sit for such examinationsperiodically held by the Board from time to time and wherethe Board so requests, submit performance reviews at suchintervals as specified by the Board. The Board shall maintaina register of all accredited Energy Managers, Energy Auditorsand Energy Service Providers, appointed by it.

39.(1) The Board shall from time to time by rules madein that behalf, specify :

(a)the persons or categories of persons including publicbodies, who shall be required to have an energyaudit carried out in their respective installations orpremises; and

(b)the manner and the periods during which an energyaudit shall be required to be carried out.

(2) An energy audit shall be conducted by an AccreditedEnergy Auditor, who shall be required to submit a report tothe Board on the result of the energy audit carried out bysuch auditor.

40.The Board shall in collaboration with the relevantprovincial authorities, take such measures as may benecessary to :

(a)provide for basic domestic energy needs of the ruralpopulation, by making available affordable energyservices to rural and remote areas of the countrywhich have no access or a limited access to modernand commercial energy services;

(b)prepare a long term plan for delivery of energyservices to rural and remote areas of the country, byidentifying un-served areas, their energy needs andavailable resources and promoting suitabletechnologies; and

Conduct ofenergy audits.

Delivery ofrural energyservices.

32Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(c)develop a conducive environment for the promotionof investments on rural energy delivery, includingthe development of guidelines in collaboration withrelevant state agencies on rural energy projectdevelopment and to disseminate them amongprospective investors.

41.The Board shall be responsible for promotingsecurity and reliability and ensuring cost effectiveness ofenergy delivery within Sri Lanka, and for that purpose :

(a)examine the energy sector performance, review andintegrate institutional and sub-sectoral plans,conduct policy analysis, review compliance withnational energy policy and strategies and makepolicy recommendations to the Ministry on theenergy sector in general, and more specifically onrenewable energy resources and energy efficiency;

(b)conduct surveys and investigations, collect andcompile data in collaboration with the Departmentof Census and Statistics, publish national energybalance reports and other documents providinginformation relating to the energy sector in general,and more specifically to energy resources,conversion, supply, utilization, conservation andeconomics;

(c)identify and analyse policy measures andrecommend to the Ministry and other relevantagencies, specific policy measures pertaining tofiscal incentives and disincentives, includingpricing policies, taxation and institutionalarrangements;

(d)obtain information relating to energy resources,research, reserves, conversion facilities andconversion levels, storage facilities and storagelevels, transmission and distribution systems, sales,customers, costs, prices, income from sales, losses,

Energy policydevelopmentand informationmanagement.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200733

employees and development plans of anyinstitution, company or individual engaged in thebusiness of energy or having jurisdiction overresources that possess an energy value; and

(e)inspect and obtain information about potential orexisting energy supply facilities and their utilizationand consumption.

42.(1) The Board shall be required to submit annuallyto the Minister, a report on the performance of energy sectorin Sri Lanka during the preceding year and the Minister shalltable such report in Parliament for its consideration.

(2) In the preparation of its annual report under subsection(1), the Board shall obtain the services of any personsappointed under section 38.

PART VIII

FINANCE

43.The initial capital of the Authority shall be fivehundred million rupees which shall be paid out of theConsolidated Fund in such installments as the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance may determine, inconsultation with the Minister.

44.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund. Thereshall be credited to the Fund of the Authority, all such sumsof money :

(a)received as initial capital of the Authority;

(b)voted from time to time by the Parliament for theuse of the Authority;

(c)received by the Authority by way of fees imposedfor the issue of permits under this Act; and

Annual report onenergyconsumption.

Capital of theAuthority.

Fund of theAuthority.

34Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(d)received by the Authority by way of loans,donations, gifts, or grants from any sourcewhatsoever, whether in or outside Sri Lanka ; and

(e)received by the Authority, by way of lease rentalsunder section 32.

(2) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority allsuch sums of money required to defray expenditures incurredby the Authority in the exercise, discharge and performance ofits powers, functions and duties under this Act.

45.(1) There shall be charged, levied and paid a cesson all fossil fuel products imported, calculated at such rateas may be determined by the Minister from time to time withthe concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance, by Order published in the Gazette.

(2) The amount imposed as a cess under subsection(1), may be varied or rescinded by a like Order.

(3) Every Order made by the Minister under this sectionshall come into force on the date of its publication in theGazette and be brought before Parliament for approval withinfour months of the date of its publication .Any Order whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be revoked as from thedate of its disapproval, but without prejudice to the validityof anything previously done thereunder.

(4) This section shall have effect as though if formedpart of the Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235) and theprovisions of that Ordinance shall apply accordingly.

(5) The proceeds of the cess recovered under this sectionshall be paid monthly by the Director-General of Customs tothe credit of the Energy Fund established by section 46 ofthis Act.

(6) The cess levied under this section shall be in additionto any import duty or any other cess levied under any otherwritten law.

Levy of cess onimports of fossilfuel products.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200735

46.(1) There shall be established a Fund called the SriLanka Sustainable Energy Fund (in this Act referred to asEnergy Fund).

(2) There shall be credited to the Energy Fund:

(a)an initial grant of five hundred million rupees to bepaid out of the Consolidated Fund;

(b)the proceeds of the cess imposed under section 45;

(c)fees chargeable from developers for managing thecarbon asset of Sri Lanka;

(d)amounts paid as royalty or charges by developersand permit holders under section 19 and section 26of this Act;

(e)fees charged by the Board for rendering anyprofessional services;

(f)money received as lease rentals from the lease ofland or interest in land for carrying on of any on-grid and off-grid renewable energy project;

(g)fees charged for entertaining applications submittedto the Director-General for engaging in on-grid andoff-grid renewable energy projects; and

(h)fees and shared savings earned from undertakingprojects connected with the development ofrenewable energy resources and the improvementof energy efficiency, energy conservation anddemand management, for and on behalf of Stateand private sector organizations.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Energy Fund, suchsums of money required for the payment of :

(a)subsidies to selected renewable energy based energyconversion plants;

Sri LankaSustainableEnergy Fund.

36Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(b)subsidies for promoting the use of energy efficientappliances and technologies;

(c)capital subsidy for fuel switching, includingindustrial thermal applications;

(d)expenses incurred in conducting awarenessprogrammes through mass media on improvingenergy security of Sri Lanka; and

(e)incentives or other similar financial assistance toany society or community based organization toencourage the adoption of energy conservationmeasures and for the development of rural energyservices in all areas of the country.

(4) The Board may invest monies lying to the credit ofthe Energy Fund in such manner as may be determined bythe Minister with the concurrence of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance, and all income accruing from anysuch investments shall be credited to such Fund.

(5) The Board shall be responsible for the regulation andmaintenance of the Energy Fund and the maintenance ofproper books of accounts pertaining to the same.

(6) The provisions of sections 50 and 51 of this Act shallapply in regard to the audit of accounts of the Energy Fund.

47.(1) There shall be established a fund called theSustainable Energy Guarantee Fund (in this Act referred toas the Guarantee Fund) for the purpose of providingguarantees on behalf of investors who apply for loans to carryon any project relating to energy efficiency.

(2) There shall be credited to the Guarantee Fund:

(a)an initial capital grant of fifty million rupees to bepaid out of the Consolidated Fund;

SustainableEnergyGuaranteeFund.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200737

(b)an annual premium of not less than 0.5 per centumof the guarantee offered to investors;

(c)interest, service charges and penalties recoveredfrom investors to whom guarantees are provided;and

(d)all such sums of money as may be received from theFund of the Authority.

(3) The amount to be paid as a guarantee and the mannerof the guarantee, qualifications required to be entitled to aguarantee and all other matters connected with themanagement of the Guarantee Fund, shall be as prescribedby the Minister, with the concurrence of the Minister in chargeof the subject of Finance.

(4) The provisions of sections 50 and 51 of this Act shallapply in regard to the audit of accounts of the Gurantee Fund.

48. (1) The Board may with the consent of the Ministergiven in concurrence with the Minister in charge of thesubject of Finance, borrow temporarily by way of overdraftor otherwise, such sums of money as the Board may requirefor covering expenditure incurred by it in the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functions:

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstandingin respect of any temporary loans raised by the Board underthis subsection, shall not at any time exceed such sum as maybe determined by the Minister in consultation with theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Board may with the consent of the Minister givenwith the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subjectof Finance, borrow money for the provision of the workingcapital of the Authority otherwise than by way of temporaryloans under subsection (1), by the issue of debentures, referredto as the Sustainable Energy Authority Debentures.

Borrowingpowers of theBoard.

38Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(3) Sustainable Energy Authority Debentures shall beissued, transferred, dealt with, redeemed and cancelled inaccordance with such terms as may be determined by theBoard with the approval of the Minister, given with theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

49.(1) The Minister in charge of the subject of Financeshall guarantee the repayment of the principal and of theinterest due on Sustainable Energy Authority Debenturesissued under section 48.

(2) Any sum required for the fulfillment of a guaranteeprovided for under subsection (1) may, with the prior approvalof the Parliament, be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

(3) Any sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund infulfillment of a guarantee provided under subsection (1),shall be repaid by the Authority together with interest thereon,at such rate and in such manner and over such period of timeas the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance maydetermine, with the concurrence of the Minister.

(4) Immediately upon a guarantee being given undersubsection (1), the Minister in charge of the subject of Financeshall lay before the Parliament, a statement pertaining tosuch guarantee.

(5) Where any sum is paid out of the Consolidated Fundin fulfillment of a guarantee provided under subsection (1),the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance shall forthwithlay before the Parliament a statement on such sum paid as aguarantee.

50.(1) The financial year of the Authority shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Authority.

Governmentguarantee.

Financialyear andaudit ofaccounts.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200739

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to and in relation to the audit of the accounts ofthe Authority.

51. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971, shall mutatis mutandis, apply to and in respect ofthe financial control and accounts of the Authority.

PART IX

STAFF OF THE AUTHORITY

52.(1) There shall be appointed by the Minister withthe concurrence of the Board, a person to be the Director-General of the Authority, who shall be its chief executiveofficer.

(2) The Director-General shall be entitled to be presentat all meetings of the Board and to speak at such meetings,but shall not be entitled to vote at any such meetings.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Board, be responsible for theconduct of all affairs of the Authority, including theadministrative control of the officers and employees of theAuthority.

(4) The Director-General shall be paid such remunerationas may be determined by the Board in consultation with theMinister.

(5) The Minster may with the concurrence of the Boardand for reasons assigned therefor remove from office theDirector-General appointed under subsection (1).

53.The Director-General may with the approval of theBoard and whenever he considers it necessary to do so,delegate to any officer of the Authority, any function or duty

Application ofPart II of theFinance Act,No.38 of 1971.

Director-Generalof theAuthority.

Director-Generalmay delegatehis functions.

40Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

imposed on or assigned to him by this Act and such officershall discharge and perform such function or duty, subject tothe direction and control of the Director-General.

54.Whenever the Director-General is by reason of illnessor absence from Sri Lanka or for any other cause unable todischarge or perform any of his functions or duties, theMinister may with the concurrence of the Board, appoint anyother senior officer of the Authority to act in his place duringsuch absence.

55.(1) The Board may appoint such officers and otheremployees as it considers necessary for the efficient exercise,discharge and performance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act.

(2) The officers and other employees appointed undersubsection (1) shall be remunerated in such manner and atsuch rates and shall be subject to such conditions of service,as may be determined by the Board by rules made in thatbehalf.

56.(1) At the request of the Board any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Authority for such period as may bedetermined by the Board or with like consent, be permanentlyappointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National transportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandisapply to and in relation to him.

Temporaryabsence of theGeneralManager.

Appointment ofstaff of theAuthority.

Appointment ofpublic officersto the staff of theAuthority.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200741

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasagreed to serve the Government for a specified period underany agreement, any period of service to the Authority by thatperson shall be regarded as service to the Government for thepurpose of discharging the obligations of such agreement.

57.(1) At the request of the Board, any officer or servantof a public corporation may, with the consent of such officeror servant and the governing body of such public corporation,be temporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority forsuch period as may be determined by the Board or with likeconsent, be permanently appointed to such staff on suchterms and conditions, including those relating to pension orprovident fund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Boardand the governing body of the public corporation concerned.

(2) At the request of the Board, any officer or otheremployee of any Higher Educational Institution may, withthe consent of that officer or the employee and the principalexecutive officer of that Higher Educational Institution, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for suchperiod as may be determined by the Board or with like consentbe permanently appointed to such staff, on such terms andconditions, including those relating to pension or providentfund rights, as may be agreed upon by the Board and suchprincipal executive officer.

(3) Where any person is temporarily appointed to the staffof the Authority under subsection (1) or subsection(2), as thecase may be, such person shall be subject to the samedisciplinary control as any other member of the staff of theAuthority.

Appointment ofofficers in publiccorporations orHigherEducationalInstitutions tothe staff of theAuthority.

42Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

PART X

GENERAL

58. The Minister may from time to time issue suchspecial or general directions to the Board relating to theexercise, performance and discharge of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act, and it shall be the duty of the Boardto give effect to such directions.

59.(1) The Board may for the purpose of the exercise,performance and discharge of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act, require all developers and permit holders towhom it has issued a permit:

(a)to maintain records in respect of such matters as theBoard may consider necessary and in such form asmay be determined by the Board; and

(b)to furnish to the Board returns in respect of suchmatters as it may consider necessary and at suchintervals and in such form as may be determined bythe Board.

(2) It shall be the duty of all developers and permit holderswho are required under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) tomaintain records, to preserve the records so maintained for aperiod not exceeding six years after the expiry of the periodof validity of the permit issued to such developer or permitholder, as the case may be.

60.(1) Any officer of the Authority authorized in thatbehalf by the Board may by notice in writing, require anyperson within such period as shall be specified in the notice,to furnish information on the acquisition, storage, transport,transmission and use of energy in any form and cost incurredin doing so and to produce such document as shall bespecified in the notice. It shall be the duty of the person whoreceives a notice under this subsection, to comply with suchrequirement within the time specified in such notice:

Special andGeneraldirections to beissued by theMinister.

Power to requiremaintenance ofrecords and thefurnishing ofreturns.

Power ofAuthority to callfor information.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200743

Provided however, nothing in this subsection shall beread and construed as enabling the Board or any personauthorized in that behalf by the Board, to require any personto furnish such information or to produce such document, ifthe disclosure of such information or the production of suchdocument is prohibited by any provision in any law.

(2) The information contained in a return furnished undersection 59 and any information furnished or the contents of adocument produced in compliance with the terms of a noticeissued under this section, shall not be published orcommunicated by the Board to any other person, except withthe consent of the person furnishing such return orinformation or producing such document, as the case maybe, or in the course of the exercise, performance and dischargeof its powers, duties and functions under this Act.

61.(1) It shall be lawful for any member of the Board orany officer or other employee of the Authority specificallyauthorized in writing in that behalf, at any reasonable time toenter any building, installations or premises for the purposeof carrying out any search, survey, examination orinvestigation for the purpose of exercising, performing ordischarging any of its powers, duties or functions under thisAct.

(2) For the purpose of carrying out any search, survey,examination or investigation under subsection (1), consentto enter the building, installation or premises shall beobtained from the owner or the occupier or the person incharge of the building, installation or the premises, as thecase may be.

(3) Where the consent required to be obtained undersubsection (2) is being unfairly refused, the Authority mayobtain from the Magistrate having jurisdiction over the areain which such building, installation or the premises, as thecase may be, is situated, a search warrant authorizing an officernamed therein to enter such building, installation or thepremises, as the case may be, to carry out the required search,survey, examination or investigation.

Entry andinspection ofbuildings andpremises.

44Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

(4) Every person who obstructs any member of the Boardor any officer or employee of the Authority in the dischargeof his duty under this section, shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

62.Every person who

(a)acts in contravention or fails to comply with anyprovisions of this Act or any regulation or rule madethereunder;

(b)fails or refuses to furnish any return when requiredto do so by the Board under section 59;

(c)fails or refuses to furnish any information or produceany document when required by the Board undersection 60; or

(d)knowingly makes any false statement in any returnfurnished under section 59 or knowingly furnishesany false information under section 60,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall onconviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liableto a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees or to animprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingtwo years or to both such fine and imprisonment, and in thecase of a continuing offence, to a fine of one thousand rupeesfor each day on which the offence is continued to becommitted after the conviction.

63.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then :

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of suchoffence was a Director, Chief Executive Officer,Secretary or other similar officer of that body; or

Offences.

Offencescommitted by abody of persons.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200745

(b)if that body is not a body corporate, every personwho at the time of commission of the offence wasthe President, Manager, Secretary or other similarofficer of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat such offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.

64.(1) All expenses incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against it before any court,shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority and any costspaid to or recovered by the Authority in any such suit orprosecution, shall be credited to the Fund of the Authority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by a member of the Board, amember of the Committee or an Advisory Committee or bythe Director-General or any officer or other employee of theAuthority, in any suit or prosecution brought by or againstsuch person before any court in respect of any act which isdone or purported to be done by such person under this Actor on the directions of the Minister or the Board, as the casemay be, shall, if the court holds that such act was done ingood faith, be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, unlesssuch expenses are recovered by him in such suit or prosecution.

65.The Authority shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter27) and the provisions of that Act shall be construedaccordingly.

66.The members of the Board, Committee and AdvisoryCommittees and the Director-General and officers and otheremployees of the Authority, shall be deemed to be publicservants within the meaning of and for the purposes of thePenal Code (Chapter 19).

Expenses to bepaid out of theFund of theAuthority.

Authoritydeemed to be aScheduledInstitution.

Members,officers etc.,deemed to bepublic servants.

46Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

67.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof any matters required by this Act to be prescribed or inrespect of which regulations are authorized to be made.

(2) Every regulations made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of such publication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall as soon as convenient after itspublication in the Gazette be brought before Parliament forapproval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval,but without prejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(4) The notification of the date on which any regulationshall be deemed to be rescinded, shall be published in theGazette.

68. (1) The Board may make rules in respect of all or anymatters for which rules are authorized or required to be madeunder this Act.

(2) A rule made by the Board under this section shall nothave any effect, until it has been approved by the Ministerand thereafter published in the Gazette.

69.(1) The Energy Conservation Fund Act, No.2 of1985 is hereby repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the aforesaid Act :

(a) all contracts, agreements and other instrumentsentered into or executed by the Energy ConservationFund and subsisting on the day immediately priorto the appointed date, shall be deemed to becontracts, agreements or instruments entered into orexecuted by the Authority;

Regulations.

Rules.

Repeal andsaving.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200747

(b) all suits and prosecutions instituted by or againstthe Energy Conservation Fund and pending beforeany court or tribunal on the day immediately priorto the appointed date, shall be deemed to be suitsand prosecutions instituted by or against theAuthority;

(c) all debts, liabilities and obligations of the EnergyConservation Fund shall be deemed to be debts,liabilities and obligations of the Authority;

(d) every decree, order or judgment entered in favour ofor against the Energy Conservation Fund by anycompetent court in any action or proceeding, shallwith effect from the appointed date, be deemed tobe a decree, order or judgment entered in favour ofor against the Authority and may be enforcedaccordingly; and

(e) every officer and servant of the Energy ConservationFund holding office on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date, and:

(i)who is offered employment with the Authorityand accepts such offer, shall be employedtherein on such terms and conditions as arenot less favourable than the terms andconditions of employment that wereapplicable to him on the day immediatelypreceding the appointed date; or

(ii)who are not offered employment with theAuthority or who are offered suchemployment and who do not accept such offer,shall be entitled to the payment of suchcompensation as may be determined by theMinister, in consultation with the Board.

48Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

70. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires :

biomass energy means the energy that can bederived out of converting the form of materialthat is generated out of a biological process,by processes such as combustion, fermentationand digestion;

Committee means the Project ApprovingCommittee established by section 10 of thisAct;

developer means a person to whom a permit isissued under paragraph (a) of subsection (2) ofsection 18 of this Act, to carry on an on-gridrenewable energy project;

energy conservation means the foregoing ofcertain non-essential services delivered to a user,by either complete stoppage of the service orthe curtailed delivery of the service;

energy efficiency improvement means theadoption of efforts to decrease the actual energyconsumption required to deliver a particularservice, without affecting the quality of theservice so rendered;

green funds means the funding available forinitiatives taken to preserve the environmentand the ecology of the planet, which may ormay not be available at concessionary terms;

hydro energy means the energy that can bederived from a moving body of water, throughprocesses such as reaction and impulse;

off-grid renewable energy project means aninstallation which converts one form ofrenewable energy to another form of energy for

Interpretation.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200749

consumption within a local area and which mayor may not be carried on within anyDevelopment Area;

off-grid energy consumer society means anyorganization representing the energy usercommunity duly registered with the relevantProvincial Council, for the development andutilization of renewable energy resources withina particular geographical area, with the objectof generating and distributing electricity to itsmembers, through a distribution network notconnected to the national grid;

on-grid renewable energy project means aninstallation which converts any form ofrenewable energy to electricity and feedselectricity thus generated to the nationalelectricity grid operated by Ceylon ElectricityBoard and which is carried on within anyDevelopment Area;

permit holder means a person to whom a permit isissued under paragraph (a) of section 25 of thisAct to engage in an off-grid renewable energyproject;

Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lanka meansthe Public Utilities Commission of Sri Lankaestablished by the Public Utilities Commissionof Sri Lanka Act, No. 35 of 2002;

renewable energy resource means the sources ofkinetic or thermal energy stemming from eithersolar or geothermal activity, which can beharnessed within the territory of the Republicof Sri Lanka, without affecting the ability ofthe future generations to harness it for their use,and includes biomass energy, hydro energy,solar energy and wind energy;

50Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

rural energy services means the basic energyrequirements of a rural community or a ruralenterprise, which cannot be met by moderncommercial energy supply channels, such asthe national electricity grid or petroleumproducts distribution channels;

solar energy means the energy that can be derivedfrom solar radiation, by intercepting,concentrating and focusing or by any othermeans;

sustainable energy means any energy resourcewhich can be harnessed for useful work, withoutaffecting the ability of the resource to providethe same level of utility in the future; and

wind energy means the energy that can be derivedfrom a moving mass of air through processessuch as reaction and impulse.

71. (1) All persons engaged in carrying on anyrenewable energy project which is an on-grid renewableenergy project or an off-grid renewable energy project withinthe meaning of this Act as on the appointed date, shall beentitled to be issued with a permit to enable such persons tocontinue to carry on such project, within one year of suchappointed date, on application made in that behalf to theBoard

(2) Every permit issued under subsection (1) shall besubject to the provisions of this Act, and shall be valid

(a)in the case of an on- grid renewable energy project,for the balance period remaining after deductingfrom the period of twenty years referred to in section18, the period during which the project was inoperation from the date of its commissioning; and

(b)in the case of an off-grid renewable energy project,for such period as may be prescribed.

Existingprojects.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200751

72.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in theevent of anyinconsistency.

SCHEDULE[Section 3(2)]

1. A person shall be disqualified from beingappointed or continuing as an appointed member ofthe Board

(a)if he is or becomes a Member of Parliament,a Provincial Council or any local authority;

(b)if he is not or ceases to be a citizen of SriLanka;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lankaor in any other country, found or declared tobe of unsound mind;

(d)if he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any court in SriLanka or any other country; or

(e)if he had been removed from membershipof the Board for misconduct.

2. Every appointed member shall, unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, resignation or removal, holdoffice for a term of three years from the date of hisappointment and unless he has been removed fromoffice, be eligible for re-appointment.

3. (1) The Minister may by Order published in theGazette, remove from office the Chairman or any otherappointed member of the Authority for physical ormental incapacity or for any act or thing which in theopinion of the Minister, is likely to bring disrepute tothe Authority.

(2) In the event of the vacation of office by theChairman or any other appointed member, the Ministermay appoint another person to succeed such member.

Disqualificationforappointment.

Term ofofficeof members.

Terminationof office ofmembers.

52Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

4. Where an appointed member of the Board is, byreason of illness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lankafor a period not less than three months, is temporarilyunable to perform his duties, it shall be the duty ofsuch member to inform the Minister in writing of suchinability. Thereupon, the Minister may having regardto paragraph (b) of subsection (1) of section 3, appointsome other person to act in his place during the absence.

5. The members of the Board shall be remuneratedin such manner and at such rates as may be determinedby the Minister, in consultation with the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance.

6. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall if present,preside at all meetings of the Board. In the absence ofthe Chairman from any such meeting, the memberspresent shall elect one of the members to preside atsuch meeting.

(2) An ex-officio member may at any time by priornotice in writing, nominate any other person to representhim at any meeting of the Board to be held on a givendate, if he is unable to attend such meeting due to anyunavoidable circumstances.

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shallbe five members and the Board may regulate theprocedure in regard to the conduct of its meetings andthe transaction of business at such meetings.

7. A member of the Board, who is directly orindirectly interested in any business transacted orproposed to be transacted by the Board, shall disclosethe nature of such interest at the meeting of the Boardwhere such business is being discussed. The disclosureshall be recorded in the minutes of the Board, and suchmember shall not take part in any deliberation ordecision of the Board with regard to such business, andshall withdraw from such meeting while suchdeliberation is in progress or such decision is beingmade.

Leave ofabsence ofmembers.

Remunerationofmembers.

Meetings oftheBoard.

Disclosure ofinterest bymembers.

Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 200753

8. No act, decision or proceeding of the Boardshall be invalid by reason only of the existence of avacancy among its members or any defect in theappointment of a member.

9. The seal of the Authority :

(a)shall be in the custody of such persons as theBoard may from time to time determine;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may bedetermined by the Board; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument ordocument except with the sanction of theBoard, and in the presence of two membersof the Board who shall sign the instrumentor document in token of their presence.

Proceedings,actor decisionnotto deemedinvalid byreasonof any defectintheappointment.

Seal of theAuthority.

54Sri Lanka Sustainable Energy AuthorityAct, No. 35 of 2007

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.