PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

SCHOOL TEACHERS PENSION
(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 32 OF 2008

(Cortitiod on sth September, 2008),

Primed onthe Order of Government

Published ar «Supplement to Part ofthe Gazette of the Democratic
‘Socialis Republi of Sri Lanka of September 05, 2008

Price: Bs..00                            Poste + Rs £00


Seliool Teachers Pension (Amendnent)
‘Act, No. 32 of 2008

{Comtified on d5th September, 2008)
LD—0. 66/2005

Av Acrro eso Sco Texcuess PASO
‘Acro. dd oF 1953

Bt enacod by the Paiament ofthe Desoratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as olows:—

1, ThisActmay be cited s tho School Teachers Pension
(Amendment) Act, No. 32 02008.

2. ‘The Scheol Teachers Pension Aet(Chapter 432)
(tereinaftr referred to as “the principal enactment” is hereby
Amended by the insrdion of the following new scetions
immediaely afer secon 5 of that enaeament which shall
have elec as sections Ss nd Sp of that ersciment -—

iy ee eres
meena eereacae rei

(@) Regulations may be made unde his Act
providing for the establishment, regulation,
Pdministration and maoagersent of the
Widowers and Orphans Pension Fund, the
Ccendtions and ciresmtaces in which andthe
‘estrone subject e which the widowers and
Childsen of femate sthool teachers wil be
eligible forthe grant of pension. fixing the
‘contributions, if any to bemade thereto by he
Government, ixing the contributions 10 be
made thereo by female school teachers,
‘uthorizing the contsibutions of female schoot
teuchees to be deducted fora ther slaves,
prescribing the procedure for making such

909274, 0 (042008)

Insenionot
‘Seaton 5: and


2 School Teachers Pension (Amendment)
‘et, Ne, 32 of 2008

‘deductions, authorizing the payment of all
such contributions in tothe Widowers and
Orphans Pension Fund and all mawers
Incidental to or connected with the said Fund

for which no expres provision is made inthis
Act

Provided thatthe Miniter sal in making
regulations unde this section as far as possible
make provision similar otha mae i expect
fof the same matter under the Widowers and
‘Orphans Pension Act, No. 24 of 1983

Sesion x Sp, Notwithstanding the provisions of
seco section Sa —

SHAT) the widowers nd orphans of Female public

officers who at eligible to the payment of
4 pension under the Pension Scheme
established under the Widowers and
‘Orphans Pension Act, No. 24 of 1983: and

() the widowers and oxphans ofthe female
‘members ofthe Leal Government Service
‘who are eligible to & pension under the
Local Government Service Widowers and
‘Orphans Pension Fund established under
the Local Government Service Law,
No. 16 of 1974.

shall mot be ented wa
Provisions ofthis Act

nt of pension under the

Amendment of 3, Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby
fenton @ fhe amended by te subsituion fr he words "Pension Scheme
Lele Al         and Pension Fund” of the following:—

“Pension Scheme, Pension Fund andthe Widowers nd
(Orphans Pension Fund"


School Teachers Penson (Amendment) 3
‘het, No. 32 of 2008

4, ‘The amendmenis made tothe principal enactment
byte provisions of his Act shall, forall purposes be deemed
to have come into effect on August |. 1983,

5. Intheeventof ay inconsistency between he Sinhala
and Tamil exis ofthis Act, the Sinhala text shall preva.

Revospecive
eis of


‘Nena wneripn of ih Pil and Aas of tc Pinon F0 doy RTO

‘arepm, Pye te Suertvoir. Govenary Rincon att Denaro

Sonoma beso NOG, Ratacre Rowse RnecanCoxontS tlae 18
‘Deseme och yearn ropes hey ow.
