PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FOREST (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 65 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th November, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 27.00Postage : Rs. 10.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 20, 2009

1Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

[Certified on 16th November, 2009]

L.D.O. 64/2000.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FOREST ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Forest (Amendment)Act, No. 65 of 2009.

2.The Long Title to the Forest Ordinance (hereinafterreferred to as the principal enactment) is herebyrepealed and the following Long Title substitutedtherefor :

AN ORDINANCE TO CONSOLIDATE AND AMEND THE LAW RELATING

TO THE CONSERVATION, PROTECTION AND SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT

OF THE FOREST RESOURCES AND UTILIZATION OF FOREST PRODUCE;

TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGULATION OF THE TRANSPORT OF TIMBER AND

FOREST PRODUCE AND OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO SUCH

TRANSPORT; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH

OR INCIDENTAL THERETO..

3.(1) In the principal enactment and in any other writtenlaw there shall be substituted

(a)for the words Forest Ordinance the words ForestConservation Ordinance; and

(b)for the words Conservator of Forests the wordsConservator-General of Forests;

(2) Every reference to the Forest Ordinance and theConservator of Forests in any regulation, rule, notice,notification, contract, communication or other documentshall be read and construed as a reference respectively, tothe Forest Conservation Ordinance and the Conservator-General of Forests.

2PL 0043204,250 (08/2009)

Short title.

Amendment ofLong Title toChapter 451.

Generalamendments tothe principalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 20092

4.The heading appearing immediately after the wordand figure Chapter II of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following heading substitutedtherefor :

OF RESERVED AND CONSERVATION FORESTS

5.Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the re-numbering of that section as subsection(1) thereof;

(2)by the addition immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1) of the following subsections:

(2) Where an Order has been made undersubsection (1), the Conservator-General ofForests shall prepare a Management Plan forReserved Forests, in such manner as may beprescribed, for the purposes of conservation of bio-diversity, soil and water and for the preservation ofits unique ecosystem, genetic resources and as ahabitat of rare and endemic species of flora andfauna.

(3) The Conservator-General of Forests orany other officer authorized in writing in thatbehalf shall implement the Management Plan forthe Reserved Forests, in the manner as maybe prescribed for the purposes specified insubsection (2).

(4) The Minister shall make regulationsapplicable either to the whole or any specified areaof the Reserved Forests in respect of :

(a)the administration and management of theReserved Forests;

Replacement ofheading in theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

3Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(b)the matters required to be included in theManagement Plan and the manner andprocedure to be followed in the preparationand implementation of such ManagementPlan;

(c)the preparation of Management Agreementsfor the purpose of obtaining communityand non-state sector participation in thesustainable management of Reserved Forests;

(d)the levying of fees or charges in respect ofactivities implemented under this subsection,which shall in all cases be equivalent to thevalue of the benefit obtained from the forest,whether monetary or otherwise. Any suchbenefit not validly declared shall amount toan offence under this Ordinance and shall becharged and recovered, in such manner as maybe specified, as a fine imposed by Court;

( e)entering into such agreements, cancellationof the same, imposing conditions, levying offees, formulating strategies for the settlementof disputes in connection with themanagement of such forest;

(f)the development of a benefit sharingmechanism among the management partnersor stakeholders;

(g)the procedure to be followed in authorizingthe use of non-timber forest produce and deador fallen sticks for fuel in a Reserved Forest,by the local community;

(h)the conditions applicable to any activitycarried out within the Reserved Forest; and

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 20094

(i)the areas in respect of which and theconditions subject to which scientificresearch may be permitted in a ReservedForest..

6.Section 3A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the addition immediately after subsection (2)thereof of the following subsections :

(3) Where an Order has been made under subsection(1), the Conservator-General of Forests shall for thepurpose of preserving the values described insubsection (1) prepare a Management Plan forConservation Forests, in the manner prescribed.

(4) The Conservator-General of Forests or any otherofficer authorized by him in writing in that behalf shallimplement the Management Plan for the ConservationForests in respect of which such Management Planwas prepared, in the manner as prescribed for thepurposes specified in subsection (1).

(5) The Minister shall make regulations in respectof the matters required to be included in theManagement Plan and the manner and procedure tobe followed in the preparation, implementation andadministration of such Management Plan.

(6) Where any immovable property, not being aState land, which is possessed of any of the featuresreferred to in subsection (1), is required for the existenceand preservation of a Conservation Forest that has beendeclared under subsection (1), such land may beacquired under the provisions of the Land AcquisitionAct (Chapter 460) on the recommendation of theMinister..

7.Section 3D of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words conservationforest wherever those words appear in that section of thewords Conservation Forest or Reserved Forest respectively.

Amendment ofsection 3A of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 3D of theprincipalenactment.

5Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

8.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the substitution for the words watercourse in areserved forest in the section and in the marginalnote to that section of the words watercourse in aConservation Forest or Reserved Forest;

(2)by the substitution for the words GovernmentAgent in the first proviso and second provisorespectively to that section, of the wordsDivisional Secretary.

9.Section 6 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

6. (1) No person shall be permitted to entera Conservation Forest other than under theauthority of a permit issued by the Conservator-General of Forests or a person authorized byhim in that behalf for the purpose of:

(a)engaging in scientific researchwithin a Conservation Forest;

(b)observing the fauna and flora in aConservation Forest; or

(c)implementation of the activitiesprescribed in the Management Plan.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection(1), a person who, in a Conservation Forest:

(a)trespasses or causes trespass orremains therein;

(b)fells, cuts, saws or causes the felling,cutting or sawing of or alters,converts, collects, removes or

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 6 of theprincipalenactment.Actsprohibited inaConservationForest.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 20096

transports or marks, lops or girdle,any plant, tree or timber or collects,removes or transports or has in hispossession, custody or control of anyforest produce or erects a scaffoldingor constructs a saw pit;

(c)removes the bark or leaves from anytree or strips of the bark from anytree or cuts its branches or tapsor burns any tree or otherwisedamages it;

(d)permits cattle to trespass, cuts grassor any other plant or feeds cattle withsuch grass or plants;

(e)blocks any waterways within suchforest or obtains water from suchwaterway by means of a pipe line orany other devices or pollutes orpoisons water or pollutes the forestenvironment by dumping anddisposing any garbage in the forest;

(f)transports, removes, uproots ordestroys any plant or any part of itor causes any loss or damage to anyplant or part of it;

(g)sells, exposes, exhibits or offers forsale any plant found within suchforest;

(h)kills or attempts to kill any bird,animal, reptile, amphibian or setstraps or snares or guns, constructsand uses ambushes or molests,disturbs or shoots or attempts to

7Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

molest, disturb or shoot or attemptsto remove any such bird, animal,reptile or amphibian;

(i)sells, offers for sale or exposes forsale any bird, animal, reptile or anypart of any such bird, animal orreptile;

(j)takes or destroys an egg of any birdor animal or reptile or removes ordestroys any dwelling or nest of anybird, animal or reptile;

(k)fires any gun or does any other actwhich disturbs or is likely to disturbany animal or does any act whichinterferes or is likely to interferewith the breeding place of any suchanimal;

(l)possesses or uses any trap or weaponor tool or explosives or poisonoussubstance which is capable of beingused to injure or destroy any animalor plant;

(m)erects any permanent or temporarybuilding or occupies any buildingso erected;

(n)makes any fresh clearing or quarriesstone or extracts coral or molluseshells or digs or mines for plumbago,gems or minerals, burns lime orcharcoal or blasts rocks, or collectsor removes or transports sand, soilor stones;

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 20098

(o)kindles or keeps or carries any fireor causes the kindling of any fire orallows any fire to keep burning or tospread;

(p)clears or breaks up soil or digs anyland for cultivation or for any otherpurpose or cultivates any suchcleared land or erects a hut or doesany other activity on it;

(q)constructs any road or alters ordamages any road so constructed oruses a road so constructed;

(r)damages, alters, removes ordisfigures any wall, ditch,embankment, fence, hurdle, gutter,hedge, name board or sign board orany other boundary mark;

shall be guilty of an offence and be liable onconviction to imprisonment for a term notexceeding seven years or to a fine not less thanrupees twenty thousand and not exceedingrupees two hundred thousand or to both suchimprisonment and fine. In addition to theabove, the court may award compensation forany damage caused to the Conservation Forest.Such compensation shall not be less than thevalue of the damage caused to theConservation Forest, and shall be charged andrecovered as a fine levied by Court.

(3) Any person who aids or abets in thecommission of any offence specified insubsection (1), or causes any such offence tobe committed shall be guilty of an offence andshall on conviction be liable to the samepunishment as is specified for the commissionof that offence.

9Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(4) The Conservator-General of Forests mayissue permits to engage in scientific researchto any person

(a)who has made an application in theprescribed form; and

(b)made payment of the prescribed fee,

for observation of flora and fauna within suchareas subject to such terms and conditions asmay be prescribed..

10.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

7. (1) Any person who in a Reserved Forest

(a)trespasses or causes trespass orremains therein;

(b)permits cattle to trespass or cuts grassor any other plant or feed cattle withgrass or plants;

(c)fells a tree or cuts or drags timber,causes damage by negligence orintentionally strips off bark or leavesfrom any tree or girdles, lops, taps orburns a tree or does any act to damageor destroy any tree;

(d)blocks any waterways within suchforest or obtains water from suchwaterway by means of a pipe line orany other devices or pollutes orpoisons water or pollutes the forestenvironment by dumping anddisposing any garbage in the forest;

Replacement ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.Actsprohibited ina ReservedForest.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200910

(e)transports, removes, uproots ordestroys any plant or any part of itor damages any plant or any part ofany plant or sells or exposes for saleor exhibits or offers for sale any plantfound within such forest;

(f)kills or attempts to kill, removes,transports, shoots, or attempts toshoot, catches, snares or sets traps tocatch, molests or disturbs any bird,animal or reptile or sells or exposesfor sale or offers for sale any part ofany such bird, animal or reptile ortakes or destroys eggs of any suchbird, animal or reptile or destroys orremoves the dwelling of any suchbird, animal or reptile;

(g)quarries stone, burns lime orcharcoal, collects any forest produceor subjects them to any process ofmanufacture, extracts coral ormolluse shells digs or mines forplumbago, gems or other form ofminerals, collects or removes ortransports sand, soil or stones anduses or possesses explosives for suchpurpose;

(h)kindles or keeps any fire or leavesany fire burning or causes any fire orallows any fire to spread or carriesany fire;

(i)fells, cuts, saws, converts, alters,collects, removes or transports anytree or timber or collects, removes,transports or has in his possession,custody or control of any forestproduce;

11Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(j)erects a scaffolding or constructs asaw pit;

(k)clears or breaks up soil or digs anyland for cultivation or prepares anyland for building purposes orcultivates any land already clearedor erects a hut or any buildingwhether permanent or temporary oroccupies any building so erected;

(l)constructs any road, alters ordamages any road alreadyconstructed, uses any road soconstructed, damages, alters,disfigures or removes any wall, ditch,embankment, fence, hurdle, gutter,hedge, name board, sign board orany other boundary mark,

shall be guilty of an offence and be liable onconviction to imprisonment for a term notexceeding five years or to a fine not less thanrupees ten thousand and not exceeding rupeesone hundred thousand or to both suchimprisonment and fine. In addition to theabove, the Court may award compensation forany damage caused to the Reserved Forest.Such compensation shall be equivalent to theactual value of the damage caused to theReserved Forest and shall be charged andrecovered as a fine levied by Court.

(2) Any person who aids or abets in thecommission of any offence specified insubsection (1), or causes any such offence tobe committed shall be guilty of an offence andshall on conviction be liable to the samepunishment as is specified for the commissionof that offence..

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200912

11.Sections 7A and 9 of the principal enactment arehereby repealed.

12.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section;

(2)by the addition immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1) of the following:

(2) The Conservator-General of Forests may,duly authorize any person to enter or remain withina Conservation Forest, Reserved Forest, VillageForest or any other forest for the purpose ofdischarging any official duty arising out of or inconnection with the implementation of theManagement Plan..

13.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

20. (1) A person who in a forest other than aConservation Forest, Reserved Forest orVillage Forest:

(a)causes damage by negligence whenfelling any tree or cutting ordragging any timber;

(b)strips the bark or leaves from anytree or girdles, taps or burns any treeor otherwise damages any tree;

(c)blocks any waterways within suchforest or obtains water from suchwaterway by means of a pipeline orany other devices or pollutes or

Repeal ofsections 7A and9 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.Actsprohibited inany Forestother than aConservationForest,ReservedForest orVillageForest.

13Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

poisons water or pollutes the forestenvironment by dumping anddisposing any garbage in the forest;

(d)quarries stone, burns lime orcharcoal or collects any forestproduce or subjects them to anyprocess of manufacture, or extractscoral or mollusc shells, or digs ormines for plumbago, gems or anyother mineral and uses or is inpossession of explosives for suchpurposes;

(e)feeds cattle with grass, hunts shoots,catches fish or sets traps, snares orguns;

(f)makes any clearings;

(g)sets fire or kindles any fire in such amanner as to endanger any forest orany part of such forest or leaves anyfire burning;

(h)kindles, keeps or carries any fire,except during such seasons and insuch manner as may be authorizedin that behalf from time to time;

(i)fells, cuts, saws, converts, collects,removes or transports any tree ortimber or collects, removes,transports or has in his possession,custody or control of any forestproduce;

(j)erects a scaffolding or constructs asaw pit;

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200914

(k)clears or breaks up soil or digs anyland for cultivation or for any otherpurpose or cultivates any landalready cleared;

(l)erects a hut or any buildingpermanent or temporary or occupiesany building so erected;

(m)constructs any road or uses any roadso constructed;

(n)damages, alters or removes any nameboard or signboard or any wall, ditchembankment, fence, hurdle, gutteror any other boundary mark or marksfalse boundaries,

shall be guilty of an offence and be liable onconviction to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to a fine not less thanrupees five thousand and not exceeding rupeesfifty thousand or to both such fine andimprisonment. In addition to the above, theCourt may award compensation for anydamage caused to such forest. Suchcompensation shall not be less than the valueof the damage caused to such forest and shallbe charged and recovered as a fine levied byCourt.

(2) Any person who aids or abets in thecommission of any offence specified insubsection (1), or causes any such offence tobe committed shall be guilty of an offence andshall on conviction be liable to the samepunishment as is specified for the commissionof that offence.

15Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

14.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

15.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words forest officerduly authorized in that behalf of the words forest officeror any officer duly authorized in that behalf.

16.The following new Chapter (sections 23A, 23B, 23Cand 23D) is hereby inserted immediately after Chapter IV ofthe principal enactment and shall have effect as Chapter IVAof that principal enactment:

CHAPTER IV A

PROCEDURE OF OBTAINING A CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION

AND A PERMIT

23A. No person shall carry on the businessof a timber depot otherwise than under theauthority of a Certificate of Registration and apermit authorizing such person to carry on thebusiness stated therein for the period specifiedin such permit, which is issued by theConservator-General of Forests or any officerauthorized by the Conservator-General ofForests in that behalf in writing.

23B. (1) The Conservator-General of Forestsor any officer authorized by the Conservator-General of Forests in that behalf may, onapplication being made to him in such form asmay be prescribed, and on payment of theprescribed fee, issue a Certificate ofRegistration and a permit to any personauthorizing such person to engage in thebusiness of a timber depot subject to specifiedterms and conditions.

Repeal ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newChapter IVA andsections 23A,23B, 23C and23D in theprincipalenactment.

Prohibitionon carryingon thebusiness of atimber depot&c,. withoutCertificate ofRegistrationand a permit.

Issue ofpermit.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200916

(2) The said permit shall be valid for theperiod specified therein and may be renewedon payment of the prescribed fee.

23C. Where a Certificate of Registration anda permit are issued to any person under section23B and such person contravenes any of theterms or conditions of the permit, theConservator-General of Forests or any officerauthorized by the Conservator-General ofForests in that behalf may make ordersuspending the registration of such person forany such period as may be specified therein orcancel such registration.

23D. (1) Any person who in contraventionof the provisions of section 23A, carries on thebusiness of a timber depot shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction be liable

(a)where the offence is for engagingin the business of a timber sawmill which is fixed to the ground orotherwise, a timber sales outlet or atimber seasoning and processingfactory to imprisonment for a termnot exceeding two years or to a finenot less than rupees ten thousandand not exceeding rupees onehundred thousand or to both suchimprisonment and fine; and

(b) where the offence is for engagingin the business of a carpentryshop (mechanical or otherwise), afurniture shop or a shop which sellswooden implements or parts thereofor any wooden articles or a firewood

Suspensionorcancellationof Certificateregistrationand permit.

Penalty.

17Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

depot, to imprisonment for a term ofnot exceeding six months or to a finenot less than rupees five thousandand not exceeding rupees fiftythousand or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

(2) Where any person convicted of anoffence under subsection (1) continues tocommit such offence after a period of six weeksfrom the date of his conviction, the courtmay, upon an application made by theConservator-General of Forests or any personauthorized by the Conservator-General ofForests in that behalf for the closure of suchtrade or business, order the closure of suchtrade or business until such time personobtains a Certificate of Registration and apermit in terms of section 23A and complieswith the conditions stated in the permit.

(3) In any case, where such person fails tocomply with the Order of Closure, andcontinues to engage in the business of a timberdepot the Magistrate shall, order such personto pay a sum not exceeding five thousandrupees for each day on which he so continuesto carry on his business subsequent to the Orderand also require and authorize the Fiscal of theCourt to close such business of a timber depot,which is being carried out at such premisesbefore such date, being a date not earlier thanthree days or later than seven days from thedate of issue of such Order. Such Order shall besufficient authority for the said Fiscal or anyPolice Officer authorized by him in that behalfto enter the premises with such number ofassistants as the Fiscal deems necessary to closedown the business of the timber depot whichwas being carried on at such premises..

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200918

17.Section 24 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section:

(1)by the substitution for the words by land or water,of the words by land, air or water;

(2)by the substitution in paragraph (i), for the wordstransport, wherever that word appears in thatparagraph of the words transport or removal;

(3) by the repeal of paragraph (p) thereof, and thesubstitution therefor of the following paragraphs:

(p)regulate the import and export of timber andforest produce and the levying of fees;

(q)prohibit the export from Sri Lanka of anytimber or forest produce, except under theauthority of a permit issued for such purposeby the Conservator-General of Forests; and

(r)prohibit the export of any specified timber orforest produce..

18.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 24 of principal enactment andshall have effect as section 24A of that enactment:

24A. (1) It shall be lawful for an officer ofthe Department of Customs to levy a fee inrespect of all timber or forest produce exportedfrom Sri Lanka, at the port of shipment, at suchrates, as are prescribed from time to time.

(2) This section shall be enforced as if itforms part of the Custom Ordinance (Chapter235) and the provisions of that Ordinance shallapply accordingly..

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 24A inthe principalenactment.

Applicationof theCustomsOrdinance.

19Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

19.Section 25 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words by a finenot less than five thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees, or byimprisonment for a term not less than threemonths and not exceeding six months, ofthe words by a fine not less than rupees tenthousand and not exceeding rupees onehundred thousand, or by imprisonment for aterm not exceeding four years;

(b)in the second proviso to that section by thesubstitution for the words by a fine not lessthan ten thousand rupees and not exceedingone hundred thousand rupees, or byimprisonment for a term not less than sixmonths and not exceeding two years, of thewords to a fine not less than rupees fifteenthousand and not exceeding rupees onehundred and fifty thousand, or byimprisonment for a term not exceeding fouryears;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the words for a termnot less than six months and not exceedingfive years, of the words for a term notexceeding five years or to a fine not less thanrupees twenty thousand and not exceedingrupees two hundred thousand or to both suchimprisonment and fine;

(b)in the proviso to that section by thesubstitution for the words to a fine not lessthan two thousand five hundred rupees and

Amendment ofsection 25 of theprincipalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200920

not exceeding ten thousand rupees, or toimprisonment for a term not less than threemonths and not exceeding one year, of thewords to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to a fine not lessthan rupees five thousand and not exceedingrupees twenty five thousand;

(3)by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(2A) Any person who allows any tool, vehicleor machine of which he is the owner or which is inhis possession, to be used in the commission of anoffence under this Chapter, shall be guilty of anoffence and shall on conviction liable toimprisonment for a term not exceeding two years orto a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and notexceeding rupees one hundred thousand or to bothsuch imprisonment and fine; and

(4)in subsection (3) of that section by the substitutionfor the words in this Chapter, of the words in thisChapter or any regulation made thereunder,.

20.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the re-numbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section;

(2)in the re-numbered subsection (1), by thesubstitution for the words Government Agentwherever those words appear in that section, of thewords District Secretary, Divisional Secretary orForest Officer not below the rank of a Range ForestOfficer;

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

21Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(3)by the addition immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1) of the following new subsection:

(2) Any person who makes an application for apermit to transport timber or forest produce statingthat such timber or forest produce was obtainedfrom a private property and there is evidence ofproof to the contrary that such timber or forestproduce was obtained from a forest declared underthe provision of this Ordinance or State land, suchperson shall be guilty of an offence, and shall onconviction, be liable to the same punishment as isspecified in subsection (1) of section 25. Theapplication shall be admissible as evidence againstsuch person in a court of law in ..

21.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words power to stop and examine any timberduring transit of the words power to stop andexamine any vehicle during its transit for thepurpose of ascertaining whether such vehicle isbeing used to transport or remove any timber orforest produce,;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the repeal ofparagraphs (a), (b) and (c) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(a)give such order, direction, signal or use suchdevices to take such measures as may benecessary to stop any vehicle or cause suchvehicle to be halted;

(b)detain for any vehicle inspection and search;

(c)seize any timber or forest produce found in avehicle and deal with the timber and forestproduce as provided for in Chapter VII..

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200922

(3)in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words to a fine not less than five thousandrupees and not exceeding fifty thousand rupees, orto imprisonment of either description for a term notless than three months and not exceeding sixmonths,, of the words to imprisonment of eitherdescription for a term not exceeding five years, orto a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and notexceeding rupees one hundred thousand; and

(4)by the substitution for the words timber, whereverthat word appears in that section of the wordstimber and forest produce.

22.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(2) Any person who obstructs or in any wayinterferes with any forest officer or police officer, inthe exercise of his powers under this section, or whocauses the obstruction of, or interferes with theexercise of the powers under this section shall beguilty of an offence and shall on conviction be liableto imprisonment for a term not exceeding five yearsor to a fine not less than rupees twenty thousand andnot exceeding rupees two hundred thousand or toboth such imprisonment and fine..

23.Section 36 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the words punishable by a fine not less than fivethousand rupees and not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees or by imprisonment for a term not less than threemonths and not exceeding two years of the wordspunishable by imprisonment for a term not exceeding twoyears, or by a fine not less than rupees ten thousand and notexceeding one hundred thousand rupees.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 36 of theprincipalenactment.

23Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

24.Section 37 of the principal enactment ishereby repealed and the following section substitutedtherefore:

37. (1) Any Forest Officer or Police Officermay, after due inquiry if he has reason tobelieve that an offence in respect of any timberor forest produce has been committed or isbeing committed, seize and detain such timberor forest produce, together with all tools,vehicles and all implements cattle andmachines used in the commission of suchoffence.

(2) The Forest Officer or Police Officerreferred to in subsection (1) shall produce, suchtimber or forest produce, together with all tools,vehicles, implements cattle and machines usedin the commission of the offence togetherwith the relevant documents before theMagistrate having jurisdiction, within sevenworking days from the date of such seizure ordetention:

Provided however, that a Certificateunder the hand of the Conservator-Generalof Forests or any officer not below the rank ofa Range Forest Officer or any Police Officernot below the rank of a Sub-Inspector ofPolice, who is personally aware and satisfiedthat it is not practicable to remove andproduce in Court, any timber or forest producefrom the place where such timber or forestproduce is seized or detained, by reason of thefact that the cost to be incurred in the haulingand transportation of such timber or forest

Replacement ofsection 37 of theprincipalenactment.

Power toseize timberor forestproduce orvehicles.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200924

produce for production exceeds the value ofthe timber or forest produce so seized, shall beadmissible in evidence and shall be prima facieproof of the facts stated therein..

25.Section 38A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words motor vehicle,machine, implement, raft, tug, trailer of the words vehicle,machine, cattle and implement, and for the words and figureseized under section 37, of the words and figure seized ora certificate given under section 37,.

26.Section 40 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (1) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(1) Where any person is convicted of a forestoffence

(a)all timber or forest produce which is not theproperty of the State in respect of which suchoffence has been committed; and

(b)all tools, vehicles, implements, cattle andmachines used in committing such offence,

shall in addition to any other punishment specifiedfor such offence, be confiscated by Order of theconvicting Magistrate:

Provided that in any case where the owner ofsuch tools, vehicles, implements and machinesused in the commission of such offence, is a thirdparty, no Order of Confiscation shall be made if suchowner proves to the satisfaction of the Court that hehad taken all precautions to prevent the use of suchtools, vehicles, implements, cattle and machines,as the case may be, for the commission of theoffence..

Amendment ofsection 40 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 38A ofthe principalenactment.

25Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

27.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 40A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 40B of that enactment:

40B. The provisions of subsections (1) and(2) of section 433A of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, as amended byAct, No. 12 of 1990, shall not apply to or inrelation to any person who pleads guilty to, oris found guilty of a forest offence..

28.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (c) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newparagraphs:

(c)alters, moves, destroys, defaces or forges anyboundary mark or boundary post or preparesfalse survey plans or tenders any such falsesurvey plan of any forest to which theprovisions of this Ordinance apply; or

(d)keeps in his possession or custody unlawfullystamped timber or timber with counterfeitstamping.;

(2)by the substitution for the words for a term not lessthan six months and not exceeding two years or toa fine not less than ten thousand rupees and notexceeding fifty thousand rupees in that section ofthe words for a term not exceeding two years or toa fine not less than rupees five thousand and notexceeding rupees fifty thousand or.

Insertion ofsection 40B inthe principalenactment.

Theprovisions ofsection 433Aof the Codeof CriminalProcedureAct, No. 15of 1979, notto apply topersons whoplead guiltyto or arefound guiltyof a forestoffence.

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200926

29.Section 48 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(2) Every officer making an arrest under thissection shall, without unnecessary delay, producethe person arrested to the nearest police stationtogether with a statement stating the commission ofthe offence with which the accused is charged. TheOfficer-in-Charge of the police station shall,forthwith, take or send the person arrested to thenearest Magistrate:

Provided however, that where the arrest of anyperson under this section is made by a ForestOfficer or any Officer of the Department of Wild LifeConservation, such person shall be taken to the RangeForest Officer or a Wild Life Ranger respectively whoshall produce the arrested person before the nearestMagistrate without any delay..

30.Section 48A of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words for a term of not less than one year and notexceeding five years or to a fine not less than twentyfive thousand rupees or not exceeding one hundred thousandrupees of the words for a term of not exceedingfive years or to a fine not less than rupees ten thousand andnot exceeding rupees one hundred thousand.

31.Section 52 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substitutedtherefor:

52. Where in any proceedings under thisOrdinance, or in consequence of anything doneunder this Ordinance, a question arises as towhether any timber or forest produce, is theproperty of the State, such timber or forestproduce, shall be presumed to be the propertythe State until the contrary is proved..

Presumptionthat timber&c., belongsto the State.

Amendment ofsection 48 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 48A ofthe principalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment.

27Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

32.Section 53 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words CriminalProcedure Code wherever such words appear in that section,of the words Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of1979 and for the word and figures Chapter XVI of theword and figures Chapter XV respectively..

33.Section 53A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following new section substitutedtherefor:

53A. Where any person unlawfully clears orencroaches or is in unlawful or unauthorizedpossession of a portion of, any ConservationForest, Reserved Forest, Village Forest or anyForest not included in those categories, as thecase may be, such person shall be guilty of anoffence and he shall in addition to thepunishment for such offence be ejected fromsuch land and the provisions of the State Lands(Recovery of Possession) Act, No. 7 of 1979shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to any suchejectment. Every reference to DivisionalSecretary in that Act shall be read and construedas a reference to the Divisional Forest Officerof the area in which such land is situated..

34.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of thatsection and the substitution therefor of the followingparagraphs:

(a)for each elephant or buffalo- Rs. 15,000.00

(b)for each calf, ass, pig, sheep,lamb. goat or kid- Rs. 3,000.00

(c)for every head of cattle otherthan the above- Rs. 7,500.00".

Amendment ofsection 53 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 53A ofthe principalenactment.

Ejectmentfrom StateLand.

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200928

35.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) by the insertion immediately afterparagraph (b), of the following new paragraphs:

(c)any employee or officer of the Department of WildLife Conservation to perform the functions of aForest Officer for the purposes of sections 24, 27,37, or 48 of this Ordinance;

(d)a District Land Officer, Land Officer, KachcheriSurveyor, Grama Niladhari and a ColonizationOfficer of the Land Commissioners Departmentto perform the functions of a Forest Officer forthe purposes of sections 27, 37 or 48 of thisOrdinance; or

(e)a District Secretary, Divisional Secretary, AssistantDivisional Secretary to perform the functions ofa Forest Officer for the purposes of sections24, 27, 28, 30, 31, 32, 37 or 48 of this Ordinance..

36.Section 59 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (i) thereof of the followingparagraphs:

(j)power to name and appoint the category of officersempowered to issue permits for specified timberand forest produce and to specify the correspondingspecific areas in relation to paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) of section 24 of this Ordinance ;

(k)power to classify the category of timber and theforest produce in relation to paragraph (p) and (r) ofsubsection (1) of section 24..

37.Section 64 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor:

64. (1) The Minister may make regulationsin respect of matters required by this Ordinance

Amendment ofsection 58 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 59 of theprincipalenactment.

Replacement ofsection 64 of theprincipalenactment.Regulations.

29Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

to be prescribed or in respect of whichregulations are authorized or required to bemade.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality ofthe powers conferred by subsection (1), theMinister may make regulations

(a)to declare the forest officer or classof forest officers, who shall exerciseor perform the powers or dutiesconferred or imposed by thisOrdinance;

(b)to regulate and administer theForest Department Fund for thepurpose for which such Fund wasestablished;

(c)to provide for the payment into suchfund of the whole or part of

(i)sums received as compensationfor offences committed underthis Ordinance and proceeds offines imposed by Court andproceeds from the sale ofconfiscated vehicles;

(ii)sums received through activitiesundertaken by the ForestDepartment; and

(iii)such other contributions as maybe made to the fund by theGovernment, any public orprivate corporation or anyindividual;

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200930

(d)to provide for the payment out ofthe fund, subject to such conditionsas may be specified in theregulations,

(i)of rewards to informersunder the Informers RewardOrdinance (Chapter 28) and toforest officers;

(ii)of compensation for bodilyinjury caused to forest officers,police officers or other officersin the exercise, performance anddischarge of their powers, dutiesand functions under thisOrdinance, or

(iii)when death results from suchinjury, for compensation to theirheirs;

(iv)of travelling expenses properlyincurred in attending courts forthe purposes of this Ordinance;

(v)of expenses for carrying on raidsto abate illicit fellings andillicit transport, of timber; and

(vi)of expenses incurred in forestprotection activities includingthe conduct of trainingprogrammes for forest officersenabling them to carry out theirfunctions efficiently under thisOrdinance;

31Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(e)to implement an insurance schemefor the benefit of the forest officersof the Forest Department;

(f)to generally carry out the provisionsof this Ordinance, which wouldinclude a levy of the fee to be paidfor any licence or permit issuedunder this Ordinance or under anyregulation made thereunder, and themode and manner of payment orrecovery of any such fee; and

(g)in respect of the matters set out belowwithin any forest which is not aConservation Forest, Reserve Forestor Village Forest:

(i)levying of fees or charges inrespect of activities to be carriedout within the forest;

(ii)activities to be carried out forthe purpose of conservation anddevelopment of degraded forestareas with community andprivate sector participationincluding the procedure for thepreparation of ManagementAgreements indicating theirpurpose, scope and extent;

(iii)entering into such agreements,cancellation of the same,imposing conditions, levyingof fees and formulatingstrategies for the settlement ofdisputes in connection with themanagement of such forest;

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200932

(iv)the development of a benefitsharing mechanism among themanagement partners orstakeholders;

(v)the procedure to be followed inauthorizing the use of forestproduce in such forest, by anylocal community and theconditions applicable thereto;

(vi)the conditions applicable toany activity within the forest;and

(vii)the areas in respect of whichand the conditions subject towhich any scientific researchmay be permitted.

(3) Every regulation made by the Ministershall be published in the Gazette and shallcome into operation on the date of suchpublication or on such later date as may bespecified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Ministershall, within one month after its publication inthe Gazette, be brought before Parliament forapproval.

(5) Every regulation which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of such disapproval but withoutprejudice to anything previously donethereunder.

(6) Notification of the date on which anyregulation is deemed to be rescinded shall bepublished in the Gazette..

33Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

38.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 64 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 64A and 64B of that enactment:

64A. The Court may

(a)where an offence relates to theimposition of a fine, direct that anamount equivalent to not less thanone-half of the amount of such fine;and

(b)where an offence relates to theconfiscation of the vehicles used inconnection with the commission ofthe offence, direct that an amountequal to not less than one-half of theproceeds recovered from the sale ofsuch vehicle,

be credited to the Forest Department Fundestablished under the provisions of this Act.

64B. (1) The Fund shall be utilized for thepurposes of granting compensation to anyforest officer who is permanently, disabled, orpartially disabled or temporarily incapacited,or in the event of death of any forest officer, tothe legal heirs, in any case where suchdisablement, incapacitation or death, as the casemay be is due to an injury

(a)sustained by such officer while onduty; or

(b)sustained by such officer whiletravelling

(i)from his place of residence tohis place of work to report forduty; or

Insertion of newsections 64A and64B in theprincipalenactment.

Purposes forwhich themoneys ofthe Fundmay beapplied.

Court todirectpayment ofshare of fineto the Fund.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200934

(ii)from his place of work to hisplace of residence after duty; or

(c)sustained by such officer, while noton duty in the performance of someact which is within the scope of hisordinary duties; or

(d)sustained by such officer inconsequence of any act orperformance in the execution of hisduties; or

(e)sustained by such officer as a resultof any act of reprisal occasioned by,or arising out of, any action takenby him in the execution of his duties.

(2) Any compensation granted inaccordance with regulations made under thepreceding provisions of this section in respectof the disablement, incapacitation or death ofa forest officer shall be in addition to anypension, gratuity, compensation, allowance orother benefit granted in respect of suchdisablement, incapacitation or death under theMinutes on Pensions or any other written lawapplicable thereto..

39.Section 65 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

65. The Minister may make rules in respectof matters required by this Ordinance to bemade. Every rule so made shall be publishedin the Gazette.

Amendment ofsection 65 of theprincipalenactment.

Rules.

35Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

40.Section 67 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words in a reservedforest or village forest of the words in a ConservationForest or Reserved Forest or Village Forest or any Forest notincluded in those categories..

41.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 67 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 67A of that enactment:

67A. It shall be lawful for the Conservator-General of Forests to determine in accordancewith specified criteria, the sum of money to bepaid to persons as rewards from the ForestDepartment Fund for the protection of theforest, where such persons provide

(a)voluntary information in relation toany offence under this Ordinance;

(b)voluntary assistance inextinguishing any fire occurringwithin any forest..

42.Section 77 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

43.Section 78 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionanimal and the substitution therefor of thefollowing definition:

animal means any member of the animalkingdom at any stage of the life cycle or anypart thereof;;

Amendment ofsection 67 of theprincipalenactment.

Reward forinformers.

Insertion of newsection 67A inthe principalenactment.

Repeal ofsection 77 of theprincipalenactment.Amendment ofsection 78 of theprincipalenactment.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200936

(2)by the substitution in the definition of theexpression cattle, for the words elephants,buffaloes, horses, of the words elephants,buffaloes, neat cattle, horses;

(3)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionclassification mark and the substitution thereforof the following definition:

classification mark means a mark placed ontimber to denote its origin, or the agency bywhich it has been handled and the class towhich such timber belongs;;

(4)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression Conservation Forest of thefollowing definition:

District Secretary means the District Secretaryin charge of an Administrative District;

Divisional Secretary means the DivisionalSecretary in charge of a Divisional SecretarysDivision;;

(5)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionforest officer and the substitution therefor of thefollowing definition:

forest officer, means any person appointed byname or as holding an office, to beConservator-General of forests, Conservatorof Forests, Senior Deputy Conservator ofForests, Deputy Conservator of Forests,Assistant Conservator of Forests, DivisionalForest Officer, Additional Divisional ForestOfficer, Assistant Divisional Forest Officer,Special Forester, Forester, Range ForestOfficer, Additional Range Forest Officer, BeatForest Officer, Forest Field Assistant, Forest

37Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

Watcher, Forest Labourer, Plantation Labourerand any other person by name or by officeappointed to discharge any function of aforest officer under the provisions of thisOrdinance or any regulation or rule madethereunder;;

(6)in paragraph (a) of the definition of the expressionforest produce

(a)by the substitution for all the words fromgum and myrabolans of the words gum,myrabolans and extracts from plants, animalsand birds.;

(b)by the repeal of paragraph (c) thereofsubstitution therefor of the followingparagraph:

(c)tusks, horns, shed horns, edible birdsnests, animal skin and parts ofanimals,;

(c)in paragraph (d) thereof, by the substitutionfor the words rocks and minerals of thewords rocks and minerals, sand, stones, gemsor soil excavated from the gem pits;;

(d)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(d) of the following new paragraph:

(e)water from natural springs, fountainsand other natural resources of water;;

(7)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression forest produce of the followingdefinition:

Grama Niladhari means the Grama Niladhari incharge of a Grama Niladhari Division;;

(8)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionGovernment Agent;

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200938

(9)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionHeadman;

(10)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression imprisonment of the followingdefinition:

person includes a body of persons, corporate orunincorporate;;

(11)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionplant and the substitution therefor of the followingdefinition:

plant means any member of the plant kingdominclusive of any part of its life cycle of plantsand also includes climbers or creeperswooden or otherwise, trees, ferns, lichens,epiphytes or any part thereof, seed, fruit orflowers or any part thereof;;

(12)by the repeal of the definition of the expressionpolice officer and substitution therefor of thefollowing definition:

Police Officer means any officer appointed underthe Police Ordinance (Chapter 53) and servingin the Police Department in the RegularService, Reserve Service or Special TaskForce, as the case may be;;

(13)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression river of the followingdefinition:

State Land means any land defined under theCrown Lands Ordinance (Chapter 454);;

39Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

(14)in the definition of the expression timber depot ortimber yard, by the addition immediately afterparagraph (d) thereof, of the following:

A timber depot includes any firewood shed, anyshop or showroom where wooden furniture orwooden articles are kept for sale and place wherecarpentry work is being carried out usingmachines or otherwise any timber sales outlet,timber saw mill fixed to the ground or otherwise,or timber seasoning and processing factory. Itshall also include a hand tractor if it is used as amobile timber saw mill but it shall not includeany temporary carpentry work shop in aconstruction site where wooden articles aremade or wood is being fashioned utilizingtimber brought to such site on a permit legallyissued by an officer authorized in that behalf;;and

(15)by the repeal of the definition of the expressiontree and substitution therefor of the followingdefinitions:

tree includes bamboos, stumps and brushwood,palms, canes, creepers, climbers woody, orotherwise, reeds and trees in all stages of theirgrowth;

vehicle includes boats, carts, motor vehicles,tractors, trailesr, containers, rafts, tugs or anymode of transport motorized or otherwise;.

44.In the event of any inconsistency betweenthe Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200940

45.Schedule III and Schedule IV to the principalenactment are hereby repealed and the following Schedulessubstituted therefor:

Schedule III(Section 74)

Whereas the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . was due to the Stateunder the provisions of the Forest Ordinance, from . . . . . . . . . . . . .of. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . which said sum has not been paid by thesaid . . . . . . . . . . . . .

And where the land . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . being the property of thesaid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . was seized in conformity with the provisionsof the said Ordinance, and sold also in conformity therewith onthe . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . day of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. The land was purchasedby . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for the sum ofRs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .which has been duly paid by thesaid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Now know ye that I, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. District Secretary, byvirtue and in exercise of the powers vested in me in this behalf by thesaid Ordinance, do hereby certify that the following property, towit (described herein with special accuracy as to boundaries), hasbeen sold to and purchased by the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . for thesum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . which he has duly paid, andthat the said premises are and shall hence forward be vested in thesaid. . . . . . . . . . . . . . his heirs, executors, administrators and assigns,free of all encumbrances.

Given under my hand this day of

(Signature) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .District Secretary.

Schedule IV(Section 75)

Where the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . was due to the Stateunder the provisions of the Forest Ordinance, from . . . . . . . . . . . . .of . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .which said sum has not been paid by thesaid . . . . . . . . . . . . .And whereas the land . . . . . . . . . . . . . being the property of thesaid . . . . . . . . . . . . . .was seized in conformity with the said Ordinance,and sold also in conformity therewith on the . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .dayof . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and the same was purchased by . . . . . . . . . .District Secretary, for the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . . which has beencredited to the Government of Sri Lanka in part satisfaction (or full,as the case may be) of a sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . due to the State.

Replacement ofSchedules in theprincipalenactment.

41Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 2009

Now know ye that I, . . . . . . . . . . . . . District Secretary, by virtueand in exercise of the powers vested in me in this behalf by the saidOrdinance, do hereby certify that the following property, (describedherein with special accuracy as to boundaries), which has been sold toand purchased by the said . . . . . . . . . . . . . District Secretary, for andon behalf of the State, for the sum of Rs. . . . . . . . . . . . . .which saidsum has been duly credited to the State as aforesaid, and that the saidpremises are and shall hence forth be vested in the State, free of allencumbrances.

Given under my hand this day of

(Signature) . . . . . . . . . . . . .District Secretary.

Schedule V

The principal enactment is hereby amended in the sections specifiedin Column I by the substitution, for the word or expression specifiedin the corresponding entry in Column II, of the word or expressionspecified in the corresponding entry in Column III of that Schedule.

Column IColumn IIColumn IIISectionWords to be deletedWords to be substituted

4Government AgentDistrict Secretary24(1)CeylonSri Lanka49AGovernment AgentDistrict Secretary53AGovernment AgentDistrict Secretary57Government AgentDistrict Secretary72Government AgentDistrict Secretary73Government AgentDistrict Secretary74Government AgentDistrict Secretary75Government AgentDistrict Secretary.

Forest (Amendment) Act, No. 65 of 200942

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.