PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
5th Session 1969-70

Fugitive Persons Act,

No. 29 of 1969

Date of Assent: August 30, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government
and published as a Supplement to Ceylon Government Gazette,
Part U of September 12,1969 ~

Printed at the DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, Cry.on. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, CoLoMsO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, P. O. Box 500, CoLomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills
issued before the date of payment will not be supplied


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

L. D.—O. 27/64.

An ACT TO MAKE FRESH PROVISION FOR THE RETURN
OF FUGITIVE PERSONS FROM CEYLON TO OTHER
COUNTRIES WITH WHICH ARRANGEMENTS FOR SUCH
RETURN HAVE BEEN MADE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF
CEYLON, TO REGULATE THE TREATMENT OF PERSONS
ACCUSED OR CONVICTED OF OFFENCES IN CEYLON
WHO ARE RETURNED FROM SUCH COUNTRIES, AND:
TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH
OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: August 30, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent
Majesty, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate and the House of Representatives of Ceylon
in this present Parliament assembled, and by the
authority of the same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Fugitive Persons
Act, No. 29 of 1969, and shall come into operation on
such date as may be appointed by the Minister by
Order published in the Gazette, in this Act referred
to as the ‘‘ appointed date ’’.

PART I
PRELIMINARY

2. (1) Where any extradition arrangement has
been made by the Government of Ceylon with any
other country, then, subject to the provisions of
section 3, the Minister may by Order, in this Act
referred to as a ‘‘ declaratory Order ’’, declare—

(a) that the provisions of this Act shall apply to
such other country, without any modifica-
tions, limitations or conditions; or

(b) that such provisions shall apply to such other
country, subject to such modifications,.
limitations or conditions as the Minister,
having due regard to the terms of such
arrangement, may deem expedient to
specify in the Order for the purpose, and
the purpose only, of implementing such
terms.

1—B 604410 —5,728 (9/69)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Consequence of
extradition
arrangement,


2 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

(2) A declaratory Order made in consequence of any
extradition arrangement shall recite or embody the
terms of the arrangement.

(3) A declaratory Order made in consequence of any
extradition arrangement—

(a) shall be laid before the Senate, and the House
of Representatives, for approval;

(b) shall, if it is so approved, be published in the
Gazette;

(c) shall come into force on the date of such publi-
cation, or on such later date as may be
specified therein;

(d) shall be in force for so long, and so long only,
as such arrangement remains in force; and

(e) shall for so long, and so long only, as it is in
force be as valid and effectual as though it
were herein enacted.

(4) Where a declaratory Order ceases to be in force
by virtue of the operation of the provisions of sub-
section (3) (d) of this section, the Minister shall cause
a notice of such cessation to be published in the ,.
Gazette.

(5) For the purposes of any declaratory Order, any
territory for the external relations of which any
country is responsible may be treated as part of that
country or, if the Government of that country so
requests, as a separate country.

Special provi. 83. No declaratory Order shall be made in conse-
pele ate’ quence of any extradition arrangement, unless the
ened arrangement—

(a) is in conformity in all respects with the provi-
J sions of this Act containing restrictions on
the return of fugitive persons; and

(b) is substantially in conformity with the other
provisions of this Act, subject to the
modifications, limitations or conditions, if ~
any, specified in the Order for the purpose
of implementing the terms of the
arrangement.


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 ~ 8

4. (1) For so long, and so long only, as a declara-
tory Order is for the time being in force in
respect of any country, the provisions of this Act
shall apply to, and in relation to, such country,

~ subject to the modifications, limitations or conditions,
if any, specified in the Order for the purpose of
implementing the terms of the extradition arrange-
ment in consequence of which the Order was made.

(2) For so long, and so long only, as a declaratory |

Order made in consequence of any extradition
arrangement is for the time being in force, the
Order—

(a) shall be conclusive evidence that the arrangement
complies with the provisions of section 3; and

(b) shall be final and conclusive, and shall not be
called in question in any court or tribunal,

5. (1) For the purposes of this Act, any offence
of which a person is accused or has been convicted in
any designated country is a relevant offence if—

(a) it is an offence which, by whatsoever name or
designation called in the law of such country
or however described in that law, fails

~. within any of the descriptions set out in the

\ First Schedule, and is specified in the
extradition arrangement made with such
country; and

(b) the act or omission constituting the offence, or
the equivalent act or omission, would
constitute an offence against the law of
Ceylon if it took place within Ceylon or, in
the case of an extra-territorial offence, in
corresponding circumstances outside
Ceylon. :

(2) In determining for the purposes of this section
whether an offence against the law of any designated
country falls within any description set out in the
First Schedule, any special intent or state of mind
or special circumstances of aggravation which may
be necessary to constitute that offence under the law
shall be disregarded.

_ (8) The descriptions set out in the First Schedule
include, in each case, offences of attempting
or conspiring to commit, of assisting, counselling or
2—B 69440—5,728 (8/69)

—

Effect of a
declaratory
Order,

Relevant
offences.


General
restrictions
on return of
fugitive
persons,

4 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

procuring the commission of or being accessory before
or after the fact to the offences therein described, and
of impeding the apprehension or prosecution of
persons guilty of those offences.
~

(4) References in this section to the law of any
designated country include references to the law of
any part of that country.

6. (1) A fugitive person’ shall not be returned
under this Act to any designated country, or
committed to or kept in custody for the purposes of
such return, if it appears to the Minister, to the court
of committal, or to the Supreme Court on an
application for habeas corpus or for review of the
order of committal,—

(2) that the offence of which that person is accused
or was convicted is an offence of a political
character;

(5) that the request for his return, though purport-
ing to be made on account of a relevant
offence, is in fact made for the purpose of
prosecuting or punishing him on account of

is race, religion, nationality, caste or
political opinions; or

(c) that he might if returned, be prejudiced at his!
trial or punished, detained or restricted in
his personal liberty by reason of his race,
religion, nationality, caste or political
opinions.

(2) A fugitive person accused of any offence shall
not be returned under this Act to any designated
country, or committed to or kept in custody for the
purposes of such return, if it appears, as provided
in sub-section (1) of this section, that if charged with
that offence in Ceylon he would be entitled to be
discharged under any rule of law relating to previous
acquittal or conviction.

(3) A fugitive person shall not be returned under
this Act to any designated country, or committed to
or kept in custody for the purposes of such return,
unless provision is made by the law of that country
or by the extradition arrangement with that country,
for securing that he will not, unless he has first been
restored or had an opportunity of returning to


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 5

Ceylon, be dealt with in that country for or in respect
of any offence committed before his return under this
Act, other than—

~ (a) the offence in respect of which his return under
this Act is requested;

(b) any lesser offence proved by the facts established
before the court of committal; or

(c) any other offence, being a relevant offence in
respect of which the Minister may consent
to his being so dealt with.

(4) The reference in this section to an offence of a
political character does not include an offence against
the life or person of—

(a) the Head of the Commonwealth; or

(b) the head of any country, other than a com-
monwealth country, by whatsoever name or
designation called,

or any related offences described in sub-section (3) of
section 5.

PART II

vt PROCEEDINGS FOR RETURN

7. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act
relating to provisional warrants, a fugitive person
of any designated country shall not be dealt with
thereunder except in pursuance of an order of the
Minister, in this Act referred to as an “‘ authority
to proceed ’’, issued in pursuance of a request made
to the Minister by or on behalf of the Government
of that country.

(2) There shall be furnished with any request
made, for the purposes of this section, in respect of
a fugitive person of any designated country—

(a) who is accused of an offence, a warrant for
his arrest issued in that country; or

(b) who is unlawfully at large after conviction of
an offence, a certificate of the conviction
and sentence in that country and a state-
ment of the amount, if any, of that sentence
which has been served, .

Authority to
proceed.


6 Fugitive Persons Act, No, 29 of 1969

together, in each case, with particulars of that person,
and of the facts upon which, and the law under which,,
he is accused or was convicted, and evidence sufficient
to justify the issue of a warrant for his arrest under
section 8. we

(3) On receipt of such a request the Minister may
issue an authority to proceed, unless it appears to
him that an order for the return of the fugitive
person concerned could not lawfully be made, cr
would not in fact be made, in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

rae 8. (1) A warrant for the arrest of a fugitive

iia yt

Pe mitral: erson accused of a relevant offence, or alleged to be
f=)

unlawfully at large after conviction of such an
offence, may be issued—

(az) on the receipt of an authority to proceed, by
a competent Magistrate’s Court; or

(6) without such an authority, by such Court or
by any other Magistrate’s Court in any part
of Ceylon, upon information that such
person is or is believed to be in or on his
way to Ceylon.

Any warrant issued by virtue of paragraph (0) of this_
sub-section is in this Act referred to as a “‘ provi-/
sional warrant ’’.

(2) A warrant of arrest under this section may be
issued upon such evidence as would, in the opinion
of the Court, authorize the issue of a warrant for
the arrest of a person accused of committing a
corresponding offence or, as the case may be, of a
person alleged to be unlawfully at large after convic-
tion of an offence, within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court.

(3) Where a provisional warrant is issued under
this section, the Court by which it is issued shall
forthwith give notice to the Minister, and transmit
to him the information and evidence, or certified
copies of the information and evidence, upon which it
was issued; and the Minister may in any case, and
shall if he decides not to issue an authority to proceed
in respect of the fugitive person to whom the warrant
relates, by order cancel the warrant and, if that ~
person has been arrested thereunder, discharge him
from custody.


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 7

(4) Notwithstanding anything in the Criminal
Procedure Code, a warrant of arrest issued under
this section may, without an endorsement to that
effect, be executed in any part of Ceylon, whether
such part is within or outside the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court by which it is so issued,
‘and may be so executed by any person to whom it is
directed, or by any police officer.

(5) Where a warrant is issued under this section
for the arrest of a fugitive person accused of an
offence of stealing or receiving stolen property, or
any other offence in respect of property, any Magis-
trate’s Court in any part of Ceylon shall have the
like power to issue a warrant to search for the
property as if the offence has been committed within
the local limits of the jurisdiction of that Court.

9. (1) A fugitive person arrested in pursuance of Proceedings for
a warrant issued under section 8 shall, unless he is “
previously discharged under sub-section (3) of that
‘section, be brought as soon as practicable before any
such competent Magistrate’s Court, in this Act
referred to as a ‘‘ Court of committal ’’, as may be
qdirected by the warrant.

(2) For the purposes of proceedings under this
section, a Court‘of committal shall have the like
pewers, including power to adjourn the case and
meanwhile to remand the fugitive person arrested
under the warrant either in custody or on bail, and
the proceedings shall be conducted as nearly as may
be in the like manner, as if the proceedings were pro-
ceedings in respect of an offence alleged to have been
committed by that person which is summarily triable
by that Court in its capacity as a Magistrate’s Court.

(3) Where the fugitive person arrested is in custody
by virtue of a provisional warrant and no authority
to proceed has been received in respect of him, the
Court of committal may fix a reasonable period, notice
of which shall be given by the Court to the Minister,
after which he will be discharged from custody unless
such an authority has been received.

_ (4) Where an authority to proceed has been issued
in respect of the fugitive person arrested and the
Court of committal is satisfied, after hearing any
evidence tendered in support of the request for the


Application
for habeas
corpus, &0,

8 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

return of that person or on behalf of that person,
that the offence to which the authority relates is a
relevant offence, and is further satisfied,— és

(a) where that person is accused of the offence, that
the evidence would be sufficient to warrant
his trial for that offence if it has been
committed within the local limits of the
jurisdiction of the Court; or

(b) where that person is alleged to be unlawfully
at large after conviction of the offence, that
he has been so convicted and appears to be
so at large,

the Court shall, unless his committal is prohibited by
any other provision of this Act, commit him to custody
tu await his return thereunder; and if the Court is
not so satisfied, or if the committal of that person is
so prohibited, the Court shall discharge him from
custody.

10. (1) Where a fugitive person is committed to
custody under section 9, the Court shall inform him
in ordinary language of his right to make an applica-
tion for habeas corpus, or to apply for review of the.
order of committal, to the Supreme Court, and shalf *
forthwith give notice of the committal to the
Minister.

(2) A fugitive person committed to custody under
section 9 shall not be returned under this Act—

(a) in any case, until the expiration of a period
of fifteen days commencing on the day on
which an order for his committal is made;

(0) if an application for habeas corpus, or an
application for review of the order of com-
mittal, is made in his case to the Supreme
Court, so long as proceedings on that
application are pending.

(8) On any such application the Supreme Court
may, without prejudice to any other jurisdiction, of
the Court, order the fugitive person committed to be
discharged from custody if it appears to the Court*
that—

(a) by reason of the trivial nature of the offence of
which he is accused or was convicted; or


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 9

(b) by reason of the passage of time since he is
alleged to have committed it, or to have
become unlawfully at large, as the case may
be; or

(c) because the accusation against him is not made
in good faith in the interests of justice,

it would, having regard to all the circumstances, be
unjust or oppressive to return him.

(4) On any such application the Supreme Court
may receive additional evidence relevant to the exer-
cise of their jurisdiction under section 6 or under
sub-section (3) of this section.

41. (1) Where a fugitive person of a designated Order for
country is committed to await his return and is not Pointing
discharged by order of the Supreme Court, the country.
Minister may by warrant order him to be returned
to that country, unless the return of that person is
prohibited, or prohibited for the time being, by
section 6 or this section, or the Minister decides under
this section to make no such order in his case.

(2) An order shall not be made under this section

in the case of a fugitive person who is serving a

sentence of imprisonment or detention, or is charged
“with an offence, in Ceylon—

(a) if that person is serving such a sentence, until
the sentence has been served;

(b) if that person is charged with an offence, until
the charge is disposed of or withdrawn and,

if it results in a sentence of imprisonment,
until the sentence has been served.

(3) The Minister shall not make an order under this
section in the case of any fugitive person, if it appears
to the Minister, on the grounds mentioned in sub-
section (3) of section 10, that it would be unjust or
oppressive to return that person.

(4) The Minister may decide to make no order under
this section in respect of a fugitive person of any
designated country who is accused or convicted of any
relevant offence not punishable with death in Ceylon,
if that person ‘could be, or has been, sentenced to dea }

, .. (5) The Minister may decide to make no order under
this section for the return of a fugitive person com-
mitted in consequence of a request made by or on
behalf of a designated country if another request for
his return under this Act, or a requisition for his


Diecharge
in case of
delay in

returning.

Evidence.

10 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

surrender under the Extradition Act, 1870, of the
United Kingdom, has been made by or on behalf of
another designated country and it appears to the
Minister, having regard to all the circumstances of
the case, and in particular—
(a) the relative seriousness of the offence in
question ;
(b) the date on which each such request was made;
and
(c) the nationality or citizenship of that person and
his ordinary residence,
that preference should be given to the other request.

(6) Notice of the issue of a warrant under this
section shall forthwith be given to the fugitive person
to be returned thereunder.

42. (1) If a fugitive person of any designated
country committed to await his return is in custody
in Ceylon under this Act after the expiration of the
fullowing period, that is to say—

(a) in any case, the period of two months com-
mencing on the first day on which, having
regard to sub-section (2) of section 10, he
could have returned;

(b) where a warrant for his return has been issued
under section 11, the period of one month
commencing on the day on which that
warrant was issued,

he may apply to the Supreme Court for his discharge.

(2) If upon any such application being made the
Supreme Court is satisfied that reasonable notice of
the proposed application has been given to the
Minister, the Court shall, unless sufficient cause is
shown to the contrary, by order direct the applicant
to be discharged from custody and, if a warrant for
his return has been issued under section 11, quash that

warrant.

7

43. (1) In any proceedings under this Act, includ-
ing proceedings on an application for habeas corpus
in respect of a fugitive person in custody thereunder—

(a) a document, duly authenticated, which purports i
to set out evidence given on oath in a
designated country shall be admissible as
evidence of the matters stated therein;


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 11

{b) a document, duly authenticated, which purports

to have been received in evidence, or to be a

copy of a document so received, in any pro-

e ceedings in any such country shall be
admissible in evidence;

(c) a document, duly authenticated, which certifies
that such person was convicted on a date
specified in the document of an offence against
the law of, or of a part of, any such country
shall be admissible as evidence of the fact
and date of the conviction.

(2) A document shall be deemed to be duly authen-
ticated for the purposes of this section—

(a) in the case of a document purporting to set out
evidence given as aforesaid, if the document
purports to be certified by a Judge or
Magistrate or officer in or of the designated
country in question to be the original docu-
ment containing or recording that evidence
or a true copy of such document;

(b) in the case of a document which purports to have
been received in evidence as aforesaid or to
be a copy of a document to be certified as
aforesaid, or to be a copy of a document so

received, if the document purports to be

certified as aforesaid to have been, or to be
a true copy of a document which has been,
so received;

(c) in the case of a document which certifies that a
person was convicted as aforesaid, if the
document purports to be certified as afore-
said,

and in any such case the document is authenticated
either by the oath of a witness, or by the official seal
- of a Minister, of the designated country in question.

(3) In this section ‘‘ oath ’’ includes any affirmation.

or declaration.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed or’

coustrued to affect or prejudice the admission in

evidence of any document which is admissible in-

evidence apart from this section.

14. (1) Any fugitive person remanded or com-
emitted to custody under section 9 shall be committed
to a like institution as a person charged with an
offence before the Court of committal in its capacity
as a Magistrate’s Court.

Custody.


12. Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

(2) If any fugitive person who is in custody by -
virtue of a warrant under this Act escapes out of
custody, he may be retaken in any part of Ceylon in
like manner as a person escaping from custody under™
a warrant for his arrest issued in that part in respect
of an offence committed therein.

(3) Where a fugitive person, being in custody in
any part of Ceylon whether under this Act or other-
wise, ls required to be removed in custody under this
Act to another part of Ceylon and is so removed by
sea or by air, he shall be deemed to continue in legal
custody until he reaches the place to which he is
required to be removed.

(4) A warrant under section 11 for the return of a
fugitive person to any designated country shall be
snfficient authority for all persons to whom it is
directed and all police officers to receive that person,
keep him in custody and convey him into the jurisdic-
tion of that country.

Form of 45. (1) Any warrant or order to be issued or made
wavrents and ~~ by the Minister under the foregoing provisions of this

Act shall be given under the hand of the Minister.

(2) Regulations may be made under this Act pres-
cribing the form of any warrant or order to be issued’:
or made by the Minister under the foregoing
provisions of this Act.

PART III

TREATMENT OF PERSONS RETURNED FROM
DESIGNATED COUNTRIES

sear tread: 16. (1) This section shall apply to any person
ings for other accused or convicted of an offence under the law of
onenetls Ceylon who is returned to Ceylon from any designated

country, under any law of that country corresponding

with this Act.

(2) A person to whom this section applies shall not,
during the period described in sub-section (3) of this
section, be dealt with in Ceylon for or in respect of
any offence committed before he was returned to
Ceylon, other than—

(a) the offence in respect of which he was returned ;

(b) any lesser offence proved by the facts established
for the purposes of securing his return; or


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 13

(c) any other offence in respect of which the Govern-
ment of the designated country from which
he was returned may consent to his being
dealt with,

(3) The period referred to in sub-section (2) of this
section in relation to a person to whom this section
applies is the period commencing on the day of his
arrival in Ceylon on his return as mentioned in sub-
section (1) of this section and ending forty-five days
after the first subsequent day on which he has the
opportunity to leave Ceylon.

17. (1) This section shall apply to any person
accused of an offence under the law of Ceylon who
is returned to Ceylon as mentioned in sub-section (1)
of section 16.

(2) If in the case of a person to whom this section
applies, either—

(a) proceedings against him for the offence for
which he was returned are not begun within
the period of six months commencing on the
day of his arrival in Ceylon on being
returned; or

(b) on his trial for that offence, he is acquitted or
N discharged by any Court in Ceylon,
tke Minister may, if he thinks fit, on the request of
that person, arrange for him to be sent back free of
charge and with as little delay as possible to the
country from which he was returned.

PART IV

MISCELLANEOUS

18. (1) The Minister may make regulations under
this Act in respect of all such matters as are necessary
for giving full force and effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the
ee conferred by sub-section (1) of this section, the

inister may make regulations under this Act—

(a) for all matters stated or required by this Act

to be prescribed;

(5) amending, varying or replacing any Schedule;
(c) for all matters in respect of which no provision,

or no adequate provision, is made by the pro-
visions of this Act; and

Restoration of
persons uot
tried or
acquitted.

Regulations.


Special
provision
relating to
the United
Binogdom,

Repeats and
transitory
provisions.

14 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

(d) for all matters in respect of which it is necessary
to supplement the provisions of this Act to
meet unforeseen or special circumstances.

(3) Every regulation made under this Act shall be
laid before the Senate and the House of Representa-
tives for approval.

(4) Every regulation made under this Act shall,
upon its being approved by the Senate and the House
of Representatives, be published in the Gazette, and
shall come into force on the date of such publication,
or on such later date as may be specified therein.

(5) Every regulation made under this Act shall,
upon its coming into force as herein before provided,
be as valid and effectual as though it were herein
enacted.

49. For the purposes of this Act, the term
*‘ country ’’, in its application in the case of the
United Kingdom, includes any United Kingdom
dependency, that is to say,—

(a) any colony, not being a colony for whose external
relations a country, other than the United
Kingdom, is responsible;

ame
PS

(b) any associated state within the meaning of the

West Indies Act, 1967, of the United
Kingdom; and

(ec) any country outside Her Majesty’s Domi-
nions, being a country in which Her Majesty
has jurisdiction, or over which She extends
protection, in right of Her Government in the
United Kingdom,

not being in any case a country which is or forms part
of any other commonwealth country.

20. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this
section, the enactments specified in the Third Schedule
are hereby repealed as respects Ceylon, and accordingly
shall cease to operate as part of the law of Ceylon.

(2) The repeals effected by sub-section (1) of this
section shall not affect the operation in Ceylon of the
Fugitive Offenders Act, 1870, of the United Kingdom, .
in any case where, before the appointed date, a
warrant endorsed under section 3 of that Act, or a

rovisional warrant issued under section 8 of this Act,
ba been executed in Ceylon:

a
A


Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 15

- Provided, however, that for the purposes of proceed-
ings under that Act in respect of a fugitive person
from a designated country, sub-section (1) of section 6
of this Act shall apply as though—

.

(2) for the references to this Act there were
substituted references to that Act; and

(b) for references to the Court of committal and
the order of committal there were substituted
references to the Magistrate before whom
that person is brought under section 5 of
that Act and the order of that Magistrate.

(3) Without prejudice to the operation of sub-

‘section (2) of this section, this Act shall apply to
offences committed before as well as on or after the
appointed date.

21. In this Act, unless the context otherwise

requires—

~Ky

>

‘* commonwealth country’? means any country for
the time being specified in the Second
Schedule;

‘competent Magistrate’s Court’? means a
Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction in
any area within the limits of the district of
Colombo as defined and set out in the First
Schedule to the Courts Ordinance;

‘‘ country ’’ means any country, whether or not it
is a commonwealth country;

“designated country’’ means any country in

respect of which there is a declaratory Order
for the time being in force;

‘‘ extradition arrangement’? means any arrange-
ment, treaty or agreement made by the
Government of Ceylon with any other
country for the return to that country of
persons found in Ceylon—

(a) who are accused of having committed in
that country any offences which, by
whatsoever name or designation called
in the law of that country or however
described in that law, fall within any
of the descriptions set out in the First
Schedule and are specified in such
arrangement, treaty or agreement; or

Interpretation,


16 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

(b) who are persons alleged to be unlawfully
at large after conviction of any such
offence in that country;

‘‘ fugitive person’’ means a person found in )
Ceylon— a

(a) who is accused of having committed any
relevant offence in any designated
country; or

(b) who is alleged to be unlawfully at large
after conviction of such offence in that
country,

and the expression ‘‘ fugitive person of a
designated country’’ shall be construed
accordingly;

‘* application for habeas corpus ’’ means an appli-
cation for a mandate in the nature of a writ
of habeas corpus;

‘* Minister > means the Prime Minister and
Minister of Defence and External Affairs;

‘review’, in relation to the Supreme Court,
includes revision;

‘* Schedule ’’ means a Schedule to this Act. ®

FIRST SCHEDULE (Section 5)

DESCRIPTION OF RETURNABLE OFFENCES.

1. Murder of any degree.

2. Manslaughter.

3. An offence against the law relating to abortion.
4

Maliciously or wilfully wounding or inflicting grievous
bodily harm.

3sault occasioning actual bodily harm.
Rape.

5
6
7. Unlawful sexual intercourse with a female.
8. Indecent assault.

9

Procuring, or trafficking in, women or young persons for
immoral purposes. ,

10. Bigamy.

11. Kidnapping, abduction or false imprisonment, or dealing
in slaves. —_
——


ag.

4

ee
- ©

Se so oe iP PY) >

Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969 17

Stenling, abandoning, exposing or unlawfully detaining a
child.

Bribery.

Perjury or subornation of perjury or conspiring to defeat
the course of justice.

Arson.
An offence concerning counterfeit currency.
An offence against the law relating to forgery.

Stealing, embezzlement, fraudulent conversion, fraudulent
false accounting, obtaining property or credit by false
pretences, receiving stolen property or any other offence
in respect of property involving fraud.

Burglary, housebreaking or any similar offence.
Robbery.

Blackmail or extortion by means of threats or hy abuse
of authority.

An offence against bankruptcy law or company law.
Malicious or wilful damage to property.

Acts done with the intention of endangering vehicles,
vessels or aircrafts.

An offence against the law relating to dangerous drugs or
narcotics.

Piracy.

Revolt against the authority of the master of a ship or
the commander of an aircraft.

Contravention of import or export prohibitions relating to
precious stones, gold and other precious metals.

SECOND SCHEDULE (Section 21)
CoMMON WEALTH COUNTRIES.

Australia.

Barbados.

Botswana.

Canada.

The Republic of Cyprus.
The Gambia.

Ghana.

Guyana.

India.

Jamaica.

Kenya.


18 Fugitive Persons Act, No. 29 of 1969

12. Lesotha.

13. Malawi.

14. Malaysia.

15. Malta.

16. New Zealand.
17. Nigeria.

18. Pakistan.

19. Sierra Leone.

20. Singapore.

21. “Tasmania.

22. Trinidad and Tobago.

23. Uganda.
24. United Kingdom.
25. Zambia.

THIRD SCHEDULE (Section 20)
ENactTMENTs.

1. The Extradition Acts, 1870 to 1032,—ef the—United _
Kingdom. %

2. The Extradition Ordinance (Chapter 47).
The Extradition (India) Act (Chapter 48

