PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CIVIL AVIATION ACT, No. 14 OF 2010

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 03rd November, 2010]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 45.00Postage : Rs. 20.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 04, 2010

1Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

2PL 0052014,190 (09/2010)

Short title anddate ofoperation.

Convention togovern civilaviation activitieswithinSri Lanka.

Application ofthe provisions ofthis Act.

[Certified on 03rd November, 2010]

L.D. O. 52/2000.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE REGULATION, CONTROL AND

MATTERS RELATED TO CIVIL AVIATION; TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE

CONVENTION ON INTERNATIONAL CIVIL AVIATION AND FOR

MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.This Act may be cited as the Civil Aviation Act,No. 14 of 2010, and shall come into operation on such date(hereinafter referred to as the appointed date) as theMinister may appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

CHAPTER I

PRELIMINARY

2.The Articles of the Convention relating to safety,regularity, efficiency and security of civil aviation as arespecified in the Schedule to this Act, shall govern allactivities relating to civil aviation within the territory ofSri Lanka.

3.(1) The provisions of this Act shall apply in respectof all activities relating to civil aviation within the territoryof Sri Lanka and in particular, in respect of the following:

(a)aircraft registered in Sri Lanka and all aviationpersonnel licensed under this Act, whether suchpersonnel are within or outside the territory ofSri Lanka;

(b)aircraft other than those registered in Sri Lanka andusers of aeronautical services being provided withinthe territory of Sri Lanka;

2Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Responsibilitiesof the Minister.

(c)the regulation, administration and safety oversightof activities relating to civil aviation carried outwithin the territory of Sri Lanka;

(d)the provision of aeronautical services; and

(e)other matters relating to the safe and orderlyoperation and development, including theeconomic development of civil air navigation andair transport.

(2) The provisions of this Act and any regulations andrules made thereunder, shall not apply in respect of anyaircraft or Aerodrome exclusively used in the service of orfor the purposes of the Armed Forces.

(3) The application of the provisions of this Act in respectof aircraft in the use of the Government of Sri Lanka shall beto the extent as may be determined by the Minister, by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) andsubsection (3) of this section, the provisions of this Act shallapply in respect of aircraft operated by the Armed Forcesand aircraft in the use of the Government of Sri Lanka, wheresuch aircraft are engaged in the carriage of passengers orcargo for hire or for reward.

4.The Minister shall be responsible for thedevelopment, regulation and control of civil aviation inSri Lanka and in the discharge of such responsibilities, theMinister shall

(a)make recommendations to the Cabinet of Ministersin regard to the formulation of a National AviationPolicy for Sri Lanka;

(b)periodically review and analyse the aforesaidNational Aviation Policy and where necessaryrecommend to the Cabinet of Ministers, anychanges to such Policy;

3Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Minister todelegate hispowers under theAct.

(c)promulgate regulations for the implementation ofthe provisions of this Act and for the fulfillment ofinternational obligations of Sri Lanka in respect ofthe SARPS;

(d)assist and advise the Government to secure byinternational agreement or otherwise, the rights forSri Lanka in international air traffic and to initiateand direct negotiations thereon;

(e)establish, develop, maintain and provideaeronautical services and other facilities andservices relating to civil aviation;

(f)initiate projects, technical researches, studies orinvestigations which in the opinion of the Ministerwill promote the development of civil aviationactivities in Sri Lanka;

(g)specify the charges, fees and costs to be paid withrespect to the grant of any certificate, licence, permitor authorization or for the rendering of any servicesunder the provisions of this Act and the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act;

(h)issue directions to the Authority as the Ministermay consider necessary to perform any functionrelating to civil aviation for which no specificprovisions are made under this Act or the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, as the casemay be, or in any regulations or rules made underthose Acts ; and

(i)undertake any other activity or function in relationto civil aviation as he may consider appropriate, inconcurrence with the Authority.

5.(1) The Minister may delegate all or any of hispowers, duties or functions under this Act to the Authorityor to the Director General, who shall exercise, perform or

4Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Appointment ofServiceProviders.

discharge such powers, duties or functions, subject to suchdirections as may be issued by the Minister.

(2)The Minister may notwithstanding any delegationunder subsection (1), have the power to exercise, perform ordischarge any power, duty or functions delegated under thatsubsection.

CHAPTER II

APPOINTMENT OF SERVICE PROVIDERS

6.(1) For the purpose of providing the aeronauticalservices specified in section 31 of this Act, the Minister inconsultation with the Authority may, subject to theprovisions of subsection (3), appoint by Order published inthe Gazette, any person or persons, to be a Service Provider(hereinafter referred to as Service Provider) subject to suchterms and conditions as may be specified in such Order.

(2)The terms and conditions specified in the Order madeunder subsection (1) may be amended from time to time bya subsequent Order made in that behalf by the Minister inconsultation with the Authority. It shall be the duty of aService Provider whose terms and conditions are so amendedby such Order, to comply with the same.

(3)The following provisions shall apply in regard tothe appointment of Service Providers by the Minister undersubsection (1) :

(a)the Statutory Service Provider shall be appointedas the Service Provider for the purpose of providingthe aeronautical services specified in:

(i)paragraph (a) of section 31 and for theprovision of aeronautical services specifiedin paragraphs (c) and (d) of that section at anyInternational Aerodrome referred to inparagraph (a) ; and

(ii)paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h) of section 31 ;

5Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Requirement toenter into serviceagreements.

(b)where the Statutory Service Provider consents tobe appointed to provide in respect of any particularAerodrome the aeronautical services specified inparagraph (b) of section 31, appoint such StatutoryService Provider, as the Service Provider to providethose aeronautical services and the aeronauticalservices specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of thatsection, in respect of those Aerodromes;

(c) appoint any other Service Provider to provide inrespect of any particular Aerodrome the aeronauticalservice specified in paragraph (b) of section 31,other than those in respect of which the StatutoryService Provider was appointed as the ServiceProvider under paragraph (b);

(d)not more than one Service Provider shall beappointed in respect of a particular Aerodrome, forthe provision of the aeronautical services specifiedin paragraphs (c) and (d) of section 31; and

(e)appoint a Service Provider which is a publiccorporation or a company in which the Governmentholds a majority of shares, for providing theaeronautical services specified in paragraphs (i),(j), (k), (l) or (m) of section 31 at any Aerodromespecified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of that section:

Provided that where a Service Providerappointed under this paragraph does not consentto provide the aeronautical services referred totherein at any Aerodrome specified in paragraph(a) or (b) of section 31, the Minister may appointany other Service Provider to provide theaeronautical services referred to in this paragraph .

7.(1) A Service Provider being appointed to providethe aeronautical services specified in paragraphs (i), (j), (k),(l) and (m) of section 31 shall be required, before being soappointed, to enter into a service agreement or agreements,

6Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Providingproperties toServiceProviders.

as the case be, with the Service Provider appointed to providethe aeronautical service specified in paragraph (a) orparagraph (b), as the case may be, of section 31.

(2)Where a Service Provider or Service Providers, otherthan the Statutory Service Provider is appointed to providethe aeronautical services specified in paragraph (b), ofsection of 31, such Sevice Provider or Service Providersshall be required to enter into a service agreement oragreements, as the case may be, with the Statutory ServiceProvider who is appointed to provide the aeronauticalservices specified in paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h), where thenature and scope of the services provided by such ServiceProvider or Service Providers as the case may be, has anydirect safety or security impact on the aeronautical serviceto be provided by the Statutory Service Provider.

(3)Prior to the appointment of any Service Providerunder section 6 of this Act, the Minister shall decide as towhether the contents of the applicable service agreement oragreements referred to in subsections (1) and (2) of thissection, provide for adequate sharing of information, properco-ordination of all activities in providing aeronauticalservices by the parties to the agreement and the use ofproperties, facilities or services in each others possession orcontrol, so as to ensure a safe, efficient, regular and smoothoperation of aeronautical services within Sri Lanka.

8.(1) The Authority may by Order published in theGazette and subject to such terms and conditions as may bespecified in such Order, make available where necessary, toany Service Provider appointed under section 6, anyimmovable property or Aerodromes, including suchimmovable properties and the Aerodromes transferred to andvested in the Authority, for the purpose of enabling the ServiceProvider to discharge its functions in the provision of suchaeronautical services in respect of which that Service Providerhas been issued with a licence under this Chapter of this Act.

7Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Prohibitionagainstappointment ofcertain personsas ServiceProviders etc.

Licencesrequired forprovidingaeronauticalservices.

Issue of licencefor providingaeronauticalservices.

(2) It shall be the duty of a Service Provider to whom anyproperty or Aerodromes are made available under subsection(1), to comply with the terms and conditions stipulated inthe Order and hold and maintain such immovable propertyor Aerodromes in good condition.

(3) A Service provider to whom any immovable propertyor Aerodromes are made available under subsection (1),shall not :

(a)effect any alteration in such property or Aerodromeor put up any new constructions in such property; or

(b)grant a lease of any such property or Aerodrome toanyone,

without the prior written approval of the Authority.

9.No person or body of persons shall be appointed as aService Provider or be entitled to be issued with a licence toprovide aeronautical services under the provisions of thisAct, where such person or body of persons poses or is likelyto pose a threat to the public security of Sri Lanka or tointernational civil aviation.

10. The provision of aeronautical services shall be interms of a licence issued in that behalf by the Authority orthe Director General, as the case may be, and a ServiceProvider appointed under section 6 shall be eligible to applyfor such a licence. Separate licences shall be issued in respectof each of the categories of aeronautical services specifiedin section 31.

11.(1) In terms of the provisions of section 10 of thisAct, a Service Provider may be issued with a licence forproviding aeronautical services in respect of each categoryof services as are specified in

(a)paragraphs (i), (j), (k), (l) and (m) of section 31, bythe Authority ; and

(b)paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) ofsection 31, by the Director General.

8Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2)The requirements to be fulfilled for the grant of alicence under subsection (1), the procedure for making anapplication, the terms and conditions to be attached to alicence, information to be furnished by applicants and feesor any other charges to be paid for the issue of a licence,shall be as prescribed.

(3)The requirements to be prescribed under subsection(2) for the issue of a licence to provide aeronautical servicesmay vary, depending on the scope, the nature or the placewhere the particular aeronautical service is being provided.

(4)All licences issued under subsection (1) by theAuthority or the Director General, as the case may be, shallbe valid until or unless suspended or revoked under section26. An annual licence fee as may be prescribed shall beimposed on all persons to whom a licence is issued undersubsection (1).

12.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 7 ofthis Act, the Authority may require a Service Provider towhom a licence to provide any aeronautical service is issuedunder section 11, to enter into a service agreement with aperson to whom a permit or any licence, other than a licenceto provide any aeronautical service, is issued by the Authorityunder this Act, where the Authority is of the view that theaeronautical services being provided by such ServiceProvider under the licence issued to it, is an aeronauticalservice which is necessarily required by the person to whomthe licence or permit has been issued, in order to carry outthe activities for which such licence or permit was issued tosuch person.

(2) It shall be the duty of each Service Provider to furnishthe Authority with a copy of every service agreement enteredinto under subsection (1) of this section. The Authority shallkeep such copy or copies of all service agreements furnishedto it in its custody. The Minister may at any time requestthat he be furnished with a copy and it shall be the functionof the Authority to make the same available to the Minister.

ServiceProviders toenter into serviceagreements withany holder of alicence orpermit.

9Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Classification ofAerodromes.

Establishment ofAerodromes.

13.(1) The Authority shall classify Aerodromes inaccordance with such regulations as shall be prescribed forthat purpose. The regulations to be made by the Minister forsuch purpose, shall be based on design, operating conditions,aeronautical services provided and the scope of the use andpurpose of Aerodromes.

(2) The Authority shall cause to be published in theAeronautical Information Publication of Sri Lanka,particulars of any Aerodromes classified as an InternationalAerodrome under subsection (1) and all other Aerodromesavailable within the territory of Sri Lanka.

14.(1) Any person who seeks to establish or any licenceholder who seeks to expand an Aerodrome, shall prepare inaccordance with such requirements as shall be prescribed bythe Minister, a Master Plan which shall identify and providefor :

(a)the development of physical facilities of theAerodrome, both aviation and non-aviation;

(b)the development of land use for areas surroundingan Aerodrome;

(c)the assessment of the effect the construction andoperation of the Aerodrome will have on theenvironment;

(d)access requirements of the Aerodrome; and

(e)security aspects of the Aerodrome and the cost andfinancial outlay of the project.

(2) The establishment or expansion, as the case may be,of an Aerodrome, shall not commence until the Master Planin respect of the same has been approved by the Authority.The Authority shall before it approves a Master Plan, consultany other statutory authority where it considers such

10Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Master Plan onceapproved needno furtherapproval.

Issue of licencesfor Aerodromes.

consultation appropriate or necessary and whose views andobservations on the proposed establishment or expansionand its effect on environment and any other factor, needs tobe considered before such Master Plan is approved.

(3) An approval granted under subsection (2), shall besubject to such terms and conditions and to the payment ofa fee as determined by the Authority. The Authority shallcause a Notice relating to any approval granted, to bepublished in the Gazette.

(4) A copy of the approved Master Plan, other than theinformation referred to in paragraph (e) of subsection (1),shall be kept in the office of the Authority and be madeavailable to the public for inspection, on payment of a fee asmay be determined by the Authority.

(5) The Authority may from time to time where it considersnecessary or on the request of the person to whom approvalwas granted under subsection (2), require a Master Plan tobe reviewed or evaluated and appropriate modifications oradjustments made thereto, to address any changes that mayhave taken place since the approval of such Master Plan.

15.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary containedin any other written law, a Master Plan once approvedunder section 14 of this Act, shall not be subject to or berequired to be further approved or accepted under any otherwritten law.

16.(1) Subject to the provisions of section 13, on andafter the appointed date, no Aerodrome other than theAerodromes used exclusively by the Sri Lanka Air Force,whether owned by the Government or privately owned, shallbe maintained, operated or improved, except in conformitywith a licence issued under subsection (1) of section 11 bythe Director General and subject to the terms and conditionsof such licence.

11Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) For the purpose of issuing a licence referred to insubsection (1), the operation of an Aerodrome shall includethose activities that secure:

(a) the take-off and landing of an aircraft and the relatedmovements of the aircraft on ground;

(b)the protection and care for the aircraft; and

(c) maintenance and improvement of the Aerodrome.

(3) An application for the issue of a licence undersubsection (1) shall be made to the Director General, alongwith the prescribed application fee.

(4) The criteria for licensing of Aerodromes shall be basedon the classification of Aerodromes by the Authority undersubsection (1) of section 13.

17.(1) The Authority shall formulate a National CivilAviation Security Programme, in accordance with therelevant SARPS.

(2) It shall be the duty of a Service Provider to whom alicence is issued by the Director General for the provisionand maintenance of an Aviation Security Service, to establishin accordance with the National Civil Aviation SecurityProgramme formulated by the Authority under subsection(1), a programme specifying the human and other resourcesthat shall be used and the procedures that shall be followedby such Service Provider, for each of the followingpurposes:

(a)preventing, detecting, deterring and responding toan unlawful interference with aviation at theAerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided;

(b)responding to an unlawful interference withaviation against an aircraft or an aircraft in flight ;

National CivilAviationSecurityProgramme.

12Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Duties of ServiceProviderproviding anAviationSecurity Service.

(c)responding to a threat of an unlawful interferencewith aviation against an aircraft or an aircraft inflight ;

(d)preventing unauthorized people from having accessto an aircraft, areas of the Aerodrome or to any otherarea where any aeronautical services are beingprovided ; and

(e)reporting the occurrence or threat of occurrence ofany unlawful interference with the performance ofthe duties of the Service Provider to whom such anAerodrome licence has been issued.

18. (1) A Service Provider who is providing andmaintaining an Aviation Security Service within the limitsof an Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, shall be requiredto provide such services in conformity with the nationalsecurity policy of the State, and shall:

(a)protect and safeguard the property of theGovernment of Sri Lanka and of the other users ofsuch Aerodrome, the safety of persons who enter oruse the Aerodrome and of the aircraft and otherequipments which are within the limits of theAerodrome ;

(b)prevent the breach of any law and the occurrence ofany nuisance within the Aerodrome and at any otherplace or location where aeronautical services arebeing provided;

(c)apprehend any disorderly or suspicious personwithin the Aerodrome or at any other place orlocation where aeronautical services are beingprovided ; and

(d)comply with any directions given to such ServiceProvider by the Authority or the Director General,as the case may be, in relation to safety and securityof the Aerodrome or any place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, its usersand property within, including an aircraft.

13Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) In the performance of the duties referred to insubsection (1), it shall be lawful for any employee of suchService Provider, to detain any person:

(a)who commits or is committing an offence underthis Act, the Offences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24of 1982 or the Suppression of Unlawful Acts ofViolence at Airports Serving International CivilAviation Act, No. 31 of 1996 ;

(b)against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that heis about to commit an offence under this Act, theOffences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24 of 1982 orthe Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence atAirports Serving International Civil Aviation Act,No. 31 of 1996 ;

(c)against whom a reasonable suspicion exists that hehad aided and abetted the commission of anyoffence under this Act, the Offences Against AircraftAct, No. 24 of 1982 or the Suppression of UnlawfulActs of Violence at Airports Serving InternationalCivil Aviation Act, No. 31 of 1996 ;

(d) having in his custody or possession without a validexcuse, any offensive or dangerous weapon orgoods, reasonably suspected to be property stolenor fraudulently obtained within an Aerodrome orwithin any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided;

(e)who is committing an offence within theAerodrome or any place or location where anyaeronautical services are being provided, being anoffence in respect of which a person may be arrestedwithout a warrant, under section 32 of the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 ;

(f)who is committing theft of or damage to anyproperty within an Aerodrome;

14Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Power to search.

(g)who is found within an Aerodrome or at any placeor location where aeronautical services are beingprovided, in circumstances which provide reasonto believe that such person has committed or isabout to commit theft of or damage to, any propertybelonging to or in the possession of the Governmentof Sri Lanka or within the Aerodrome or the placeor location where aeronautical services are beingprovided ;

(h)found taking precautions to conceal his presenceunder circumstances which afford reason to believethat he is taking such precaution with a view tocommitting a cognizable offence within themeaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979 or an offence under this Act, theOffences Against Aircraft Act, No. 24 of 1982 orthe Suppression of Unlawful Acts of Violence atAirports Serving International Civil Aviation Act,No. 31 of 1996 ; or

(i)at the request of the Pilot-in-Command, where suchperson was found to have committed an offencewhile the aircraft was in flight.

(3) Any person detained under subsection (2) shall unlessreleased, be forthwith handed over to a police officer to bedealt with according to law.

19.It shall be lawful for an employee of the ServiceProvider providing and maintaining an Aviation SecurityService to search any person, including his belongings orany conveyance used by such person within the premises ofthe Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, where there isreason to believe that such person has committed or is aboutto commit a cognizable offence within the meaning of theCode of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, or anyoffence under this Act, the Offences Against Aircraft Act,

15Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

No. 24 of 1982 or the Suppression of Unlawful Acts ofViolence at Airports Serving International Civil AviationAct, No. 31 of 1996:

Provided however that, where it is necessary to cause awoman to be searched, such search shall be carried out byanother woman, with strict regard to decency.

20.In all cases of fire or any other calamity occurringwithin an Aerodrome or at any other place or location whereaeronautical services are being provided, it shall be the dutyof every employee of the Service Provider providing andmaintaining an Aviation Security Service who is on dutywithin such Aerodrome or the location or place where theaeronautical services are being provided, to take all suchnecessary steps to protect the persons and propertyendangered thereby.

21.(1) A Service Provider providing and maintainingan Aviation Security Service shall be required to obtain apermit from the Director General pertaining to the numberof employees to be employed by such Service Provider andthe nature, type and quantity of firearms and ammunition tobe used in the provision of such service.

(2) The Director General shall, prior to the issue of a permitunder subsection (1), obtain the approval for the same fromthe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in charge of thesubject of Defence and a permit so issued shall be subject toany requirements pertaining to the safety of civil aviatonactivities, that are imposed by the Director General.

22. No suit or prosecution shall lie against a ServiceProvider providing and maintaining an Aviation SecurityService or any employee of such Service Provider, theDirector General, the Authority or the Government ofSri Lanka, in respect of any act which is in good faith done,or purported to be done or omitted to be done, by suchService Provider or employee of such Service Provider underthis Act or for the purpose of ensuring the safety or securityof persons or property within or outside an Aerodrome.

Action in case offire or any othercalamity.

Cadre andfirearms to beused by theService Providerto be approvedby the DirectorGeneral.

Protection foraction taken ingood faith underthis Chapter ofthis Act.

16Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

23.(1) The Minister may by Order published in theGazette, declare any land which is adjacent or contiguousto:

(a)an Aerodrome, whether such Aerodrome ismaintained for purposes of civil aviation or ismaintained on a joint user basis ;

(b)any location where equipment for the provision ofaeronautical aids are installed ; or

(c)any area in respect of which a Master Plan for theestablishment of an Aerodrome has been approvedunder section 14,

to be a protected area (in this Act referred to as the ProtectedArea) for the purposes of this Act.

(2) An Order under subsection (1) may define the area ofland by setting out the extent, the assessment number or themetes and bounds of the land or each of the lands whichcomprises of such area of land.

(3) The Director General shall issue in respect of anyService Provider to whom a licence has been issued to provideaeronautical aids, instructions, directions or proceduresrelating to the use of land in a Protected Area, the creation ofProtected Zones within that area to safeguard safe take-offand landing of aircraft, safety in the airspace for take-offand approach, the environmental protection and theprotection of civil aviation activities against electronic orother interference from sources outside the Aerodrome.

(4) The Director-General shall issue instructions,directives and procedures setting out the requirements to becomplied with in regard to the construction of any buildingsor other structures or the making of alterations to any existingbuildings or other structures within the Protected Area andin respect of distinct lighting and markings in theneighbourhood of an Aerodrome or air route.

Declaration ofProtected Areas.

17Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other writtenlaw to the contrary, no person or authority shall issuepermission for the construction of any building or otherstructures or for carrying alterations to any existing buildingor structure within a Protected Area, except under theauthority of a permit issued by the Director General andwhere any building is constructed or any alteration is carriedout without obtaining such a permit, the Authority shallhave the power to have such building or alteration, as thecase may be, demolished at the cost of the owner.

24.(1) Where any land in any Protected Area other thanState land, is required by the Authority for any purpose underthis Act and the Minister approves the proposed acquisition,the land proposed to be acquired shall for the purpose of theapplication of the Land Acquisition Act, be deemed to berequired for a public purpose and may be acquired underthat Act and transferred to the Authority

(2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of land for theAuthority under the Land Acquisition Act shall be paid outof the Fund.

25.It shall be lawful for a Service Provider who is issuedwith a licence or permit under this Chapter of this Act, togive such instructions, consistent with the provisions of thisAct and subject to any directives that may be issued in thatbehalf by the Minister or the Director General, as the casemay be, to all users of the aeronautical service provided bythat Service Provider under such licence. It shall be the dutyof all persons who use such aeronautical service, to complywith such instructions.

26.(1) A licence issued to a Service Provider under thisChapter of this Act may, with the concurrence of the Minister,be suspended or revoked by the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be, who issued such licence, on theground of:

(a)non-compliance or refusal to comply with:

(i)the terms and conditions of the licence;

Issuinginstructions bylicence holders.

Suspension andrevocation oflicences.

Acquisition ofland in anyProtected Area.

18Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(ii) any provisions of this Act or any regulationsor rules made thereunder; or

(iii)any instructions or directives issued by theMinister, the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be;

(b) non-payment of any fees or charges required to bepaid; or

(c) such other reasons as determined by the Authorityor the Director General, as the case may be, thatwould affect the smooth operation of the serviceprovided under the licence or the safety of suchoperation.

(2) A suspension under subsection (1) shall not be for aperiod of more than three months.

(3) A Service Provider whose licence is suspended orrevoked under subsection (1), may appeal against suchsuspension or revocation, to the Secretary to the Ministry ofthe Minister, whose decision on such appeal shall be finaland conclusive and shall not be appealed against in anycourt or tribunal.

27.(1) Where a licence for the provision of anyaeronautical services issued to a Service Provider issuspended, it shall be duty of the Authority during theperiod of such suspension, to ensure:

(a)the continuity of the provision of the aeronauticalservices that were being provided by such ServiceProvider; and

(b)the continuity of any contractual obligations orrights arising from any agreements that may havebeen entered into by such Service Provider sincethe issue of the licence that has being suspended.

Providingaeronauticalservices during asuspension of alicence.

19Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) In providing aeronautical services by the Authorityduring the period referred to in subsection (1), the Authoritymay, without prejudice and notwithstanding anything tothe contrary contained in a contract of employment relatingto the rights and duties of any employee of the ServiceProvider whose licence has been suspended, obtain theservices of any such employee and where necessary, theservices of any other Service Provider.

(3) Any payment or charge required to be made forobtaining the services referred to in subsection (2) shallbe paid by the Authority out of its Fund.

28.(1) Where an aeronautical licence issued to anyService Provider is revoked under section 26, the Authorityshall forthwith inform all other Service Providers of suchrevocation and it shall be the duty of every person who hasentered into any agreements or contracts with such ServiceProvider, to provide the Authority with details of all suchagreements and the obligations that remain to be fulfilledunder any such agreement by such Service Provider, at thetime of the revocation of the licence.

(2) Where a licence for the provision of any aeronauticalservice issued to a Service Provider is revoked and theAuthority is of the opinion that in the national interest andalso in the interest of the aviation industry in Sri Lanka, alicence should be issued to another Service Provider toprovide those aeronautical services, it shall be theresponsibility of the Authority to:

(a)ensure the continuity of the provision of suchaeronautical service or services that were beingprovided by the Service Provider whose licence isbeing revoked, until a new licence is issued forthat purpose to another Service Provider;

(b)make available to any other Service Provider orService Providers, as the case may be, to whom a

Providingaeronauticalservices etc. onthe revocationof a licence.

20Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

new licence or licences may be issued, all theproperty that was made available to the ServiceProvider whose licence was revoked, to enable suchother Service Provider or Service Providers, as thecase may be, to provide the aeronautical serviceor services under the new licence or licences soissued; and

(c)ensure that the Service Provider or Providers towhom a new licence or licences are issued, fulfillall contractual obligations or rights arising fromany agreements that may have been entered into bythe Service Provider whose licence was revoked,where in the opinion of the Authority, the interestof the aviation industry warrants the fulfillment ofthose obligations.

29.During the period of suspension of a licence issuedto a Service Provider, such Service Provider shall not haveaccess to any property that may have been made availableto such Service Provider under section 8 of this Act, andwhere a licence is revoked, all property that has been madeavailable to such Service Provider under that section, shallbe vested with the Authority and the Authority may makethat property available to any other Service Provider orService Providers, as the case may be, to whom a licence wasissued for the provision of such aeronautical service, undersection 28.

30.Nothing contained in the preceding provisions ofthis Chapter of this Act shall preclude the Authority, withthe approval of the Minister, from providing on its own, anycategory of aeronautical services specified in section 31,where it considers it expedient or necessary to do so:

Provided however, where such aeronautical service is aservice in respect of which the Director General is requiredto issue a licence under this Chapter of this Act, the Authorityshall provide such service only with the concurrence of theDirector General.

Effect onpropertytransferred onasuspension orcancellation of alicence.

Authority tohave power toprovideaeronauticalservices.

21Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

31.For the purposes of this Act aeronautical servicesmeans:

(a)the development, operation and maintenance ofAerodromes classified as an InternationalAerodrome, under subsection (1) of section 13;

(b)the development, operation and maintenance ofAerodromes other than those referred to inparagraph (a) and the provision of Aerodromefacilities at such Aerodromes;

(c)the provision and maintenance of search, rescueand fire fighting services at Aerodromes;

(d)the provision and maintenance of an AviationSecurity Service;

(e)the provision of Air Traffic Services ;

(f)the provision of Aeronautical Information Services;

(g)the provision of Aeronautical CommunicationServices;

(h)the provision of aeronautical aids forcommunication, navigation or surveillance;

(i)the provision of services relating to the supply ofaviation fuel and lubricant to aircraft;

(j)the provision of assistance or equipment fordispatch of aircraft on the apron, including aircraftcleaning services;

(k)the provision of ground handling facilities orservices to aircraft;

(l)the provision of catering services to aircraft; and

(m)the supply of any other service to an aircraft, otherthan the services specified above.

Definition ofaeronauticalservices.

22Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

CHAPTER III

REGULATION OF CIVIL AVIATION

32.(1) No foreign military or state aircraft may enterthe territory of Sri Lanka, without a special permission orauthorization for the same being obtained from the Secretaryto the Ministry of the Minister in charge of the subject ofDefence.

(2) No foreign civil aircraft may enter the territory ofSri Lanka without a special permission or authorization fromthe Director General.

33.For purpose of fulfilling the internationalobligations of Sri Lanka regarding the safety, security ofcivil aircraft and interception procedures, the Minister shallco-ordinate the operation of state and military aircraft, inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofDefence.

34.(1) In time of an armed conflict whether actual orimminent or in the case of any national emergency, noticeof which has been given in conformity with the requirementsspecified in the Convention, the Minister in charge of thesubject of Defence may by general or special order, regulateor prohibit, either absolutely or subject to such conditionsas may be specified in the Order, the navigation of all or anydescriptions of aircraft in or over the territory of Sri Lanka orany portion thereof, and may thereafter in consultation withthe Minister, by any subsequent Order, authorize only forsuch purpose, the armed forces to take possession of and useany Aerodrome, landing ground, aircraft, aircraftmanufacturing or maintenance facility together with allmachinery, plant, material or things found therein or thereon,and for regulating or prohibiting the use, erection, building,maintenance or establishment of any aerodrome, flyingschool or landing ground.

(2) Any person, who suffers direct loss owing to theoperation of an Order made under subsection (1), shall be

Entry by foreignMilitary or Stateaircraft.

Special powersin case ofemergency.

Coordination ofoperations inconsultationwith Minister ofDefence.

23Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

entitled to receive compensation from the Minister in chargeof the subject of Defence from such moneys as may beprovided by Parliament for the purpose. The amount ofcompensation to be paid shall in default of agreementbetween the parties interested, be fixed by an arbitrator to beagreed upon between such parties :

Provided however, that no compensation shall be payableby reason of the operation of a general Order under thissection prohibiting flying over the territory of Sri Lanka orany part thereof.

35.No person whose performance of duty required ofhim as an aviation personnel has an effect on the safety ofcivil aircraft operations in the State, shall perform such dutywhile under the influence of any psychoactive substance byreason of which human performance is impaired or use anyother substance which might jeopardize the safe performanceof his duties.

36.The Director-General or any person duly authorizedby the Director-General, shall have unrestricted access toany aircraft whilst it is in Sri Lanka, for the purpose ofensuring that such aircraft is airworthy, that it carries therequired documentation and is being operated in accordancewith the provisions of this Act, or any regulation, rules orimplementing standards issued thereunder.

37.The Director General or any person duly authorizedby the Director General, shall have the power to direct theoperator or the crew of an aircraft not to operate the aircraft,in situations where he has sufficient reasons to believe that:

(a)the aircraft is not airworthy;

(b)the crew is not qualified or is physically or mentallyin capable of operating the flight;

(c)the operation would cause imminent danger topersons or property; or

Inspection ofaircraft.

Director Generalto prevent aflight.

Restrictions onaviationpersonnel.

24Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(d)the aircraft does not have an approved dispatchprocedure or is not dispatched in accordance withapproved dispatch procedures,

and shall in such a situation, take all such steps as arenecessary, to detain the aircraft or crew.

38.(1) Where the Director General believes onreasonable grounds that the operation of any particularaircraft or all aircraft belonging to that class, or the use ofany particular aircraft component or any component ofthat class or any Aerodromes or the provision of anyaeronautical service, may endanger any person or propertyof any person and that prompt action should be taken toprevent or avert such threat or danger, the Director Generalmay, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained inany licence or permit or certificate issued under this Act:

(a)suspend, prohibit or impose conditions on theoperation of any specified aircraft or aircraftbelonging to that class or of such Aerodrome or theprovision of such aeronautical service;

(b)suspend, prohibit or impose conditions on the useof any specified aircraft component or anycomponents of that class ; or

(c)detain the aircraft or seize the aircraft componentin order to prevent their operation or use.

(2) Any detention or seizure under paragraph (c) ofsubsection (1) shall forthwith be notified to the owner oroperator of the aircraft or component or to the ServiceProvider, as the case may be.

CHAPTER IV

REGISTRATION AND MARKING OF AIRCRAFT

39.An aircraft shall not fly in or over the territory ofSri Lanka, unless it is registered:

(a)in Sri Lanka ;

Actions to betaken to preventa threat ordanger to personor property.

Aircraft not tofly unlessregistered.

25Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)in a State Party to the Convention; or

(c)in a country with which the Government of Sri Lankahas in force an agreement which provides for theflight in or over the territory of Sri Lanka, of aircraftregistered in that country.

40.Notwithstanding the provisions of section 39, anaircraft not registered as required by that section may bepermitted to fly in or over the territory of Sri Lanka underthe authority of a permit issued by the Director General.Such a permit may be issued for the purpose of or inconnection with enabling an aircraft to be used for anyexperimental or test purpose or for any other purpose whichappears to the Director General as being sufficient to permitsuch aircraft to fly unregistered, provided that in any suchcase, the aircraft shall be flown in accordance with suchconditions or limitations as may be specified in the permitissued by the Director General.

41.(1) Any aircraft which is not currently registeredand entered in an Aircraft Register of any other State shallbe eligible for registration in Sri Lanka, where:

(a) it is owned by a citizen of Sri Lanka or a bodycorporate or a body incorporated by any law ofSri Lanka, having its principal place of business inSri Lanka;

(b) in the case of a State aircraft, the aircraft is fullyowned by the Government of Sri Lanka or anypublic corporation; or

(c) in the case of a leased aircraft, if it is exclusivelyoperated by an operator having its principal placeof business in Sri Lanka and who has a current andappropriate Air Operator Certificate issued by theDirector-General.

(2) Where subsequent to it being registered the ownershipof an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka changes, it shall be the

Experiment ortest flights.

Registration ofaircrafts.

26Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

duty of the holder of the Certificate of Registration issuedunder section 42, to forthwith inform the Director General ofsuch change, and surrender the Certificate of Registration tothe Director General.

42.(1) An owner or operator of an aircraft eligible to beregistered under section 41, may make an application in theprescribed form to the Director-General, for registration inSri Lanka of such aircraft and the Director-General may,where he is satisfied on the information contained in theapplication, that the aircraft complies with all suchrequirements as may be prescribed for that purpose, registerthe aircraft.

(2) Where an aircraft is registered in Sri Lanka, theDirector General shall on payment of the prescribed fee,issue in respect of such aircraft a Certificate of Registrationand assign a mark to enable the identification of thenationality and a Registration Mark unique to such aircraft.

(3) A Certificate issued under subsection (2) shallgenerally be valid for a period not exceeding one year,provided that the Director General may at his discretion,issue a Certificate valid for a period more than one year.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2) ofthis section, the Director General may as an interim measure,issue a Provisional Certificate of Registration in respect ofany aircraft, if such aircraft:

(a)is to be brought into Sri Lanka for the purpose ofregistration; or

(b)is to be used for experimental or test purposes; or

(c)is to be brought into Sri Lanka or is to be used forany purpose as shall be determined by the DirectorGeneral.

Application forand issue of aCertificate ofRegistration.

27Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

43.(1) The Director-General shall keep and maintain aregister called and known as the Civil Aircraft Register ofSri Lanka in which particulars relating to all aircraftregistered in Sri Lanka and any other information as may beprescribed, shall be entered.

(2) The Civil Aircraft Register of Sri Lanka shall be madeavailable to the public for inspection, on the payment to theAuthority of a prescribed fee.

(3) Information contained in the Civil Aircraft Registerof Sri Lanka pertaining to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka,shall be prima facie evidence of the ownership of suchaircraft , and an extract from such Register duly certified bythe Director General as a true extract, shall be acted upon asprima facie evidence of the contents contained therein.

44.(1) A Certificate of Registration issued under section42, may be cancelled by the Director General on any one ormore of the following grounds:

(a)failure to inform the Director General of a changein the ownership of an aircraft, after its registration;

(b)destruction of the registered aircraft or anydestruction being caused to the hull of such aircraft;or

(c)the Director General has sufficient evidence tobelieve that the registration was obtainedfraudulently or by submitting false or incorrectinformation.

(2) Where a registration is cancelled on any groundspecified in subsection (1), the Director-General shall causeall information pertaining to such cancellation to be recordedin the Civil Aircraft Register of Sri Lanka and the holder ofsuch Certificate of Registration shall be required forthwithto surrender such Certificate to the Director General.

Civil AircraftRegister of SriLanka.

Cancellation ofCertificate ofRegistration.

28Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

45.A holder of a Certificate of Registration may,not less than one month prior to the expiry of suchCertificate, apply to the Director General for a renewal ofthe Certificate in such form as shall be prescribed and theDirector General may, on the payment of the prescribedrenewal fee, renew the Certificate for a further period of oneyear or such lesser period as may be determined by theDirector General.

46.Unless otherwise authorised by the Director-Generalin writing, each aircraft shall carry and display in theprescribed manner, its nationality and Registration Mark.

47.(1) An aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall notbear on any part of its exterior surface any advertisement orany sign or lettering, except those permitted under theprovisions of this Act or as required or permitted by theDirector General.

(2) The name and emblem of the operator of the aircraftand the National Flag of Sri Lanka may be displayed on anyaircraft registered in Sri Lanka, (if its location, size, shapeand colour does not interfere with the easy recognition ofand are not capable of confusion with, the nationality andRegistration Marks of the aircraft) in such manner that theyare distinct and are not likely to create confusion with themarkings used by any Military aircraft or State aircraft, asthe case may be.

(3) The Civil Air Ensign of Sri Lanka shall not be flown,painted or otherwise displayed on any aircraft, except withthe approval of and subject to such conditions as arespecified by the Director General in writing.

(4) An aircraft shall not without the prior written approvalof the Director General, be parked, moved or housed at anyplace other than its principal place of station as indicated inthe Certificate of Registration.

Renewal ofCertificate ofRegistration.

Display ofnationality andRegistrationMark.

Use of SateMarks and CivilAir Ensign.

29Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

CHAPTER V

AIRWORTHINESS AND EQUIPMENT OF AIRCRAFT

48.(1) No person or body of persons shall import,design, manufacture, assemble, modify, repair, overhaul,or maintain or attempt to import, design, manufacture,assemble, modify, repair, overhaul or maintain any aircraftor aircraft engines, propellers, appliances and components,except under the authority of a permit issued by the DirectorGeneral which may be obtained on application made in thatbehalf in the prescribed form to the Director General and onthe payment of a prescribed fee.

(2) The Director General shall, on being satisfied as tothe requirements, adequacy and suitability of the equipment,facilities and material proposed to be used for the type,design, manufacture, assemble, modification, repair,overhaul and maintenance and the competency of thoseengaged in the work giving instructions therein, issue apermit to an applicant to import, design, manufacture,assemble, modify, repair, overhaul and attend to themaintenance of any aircraft, aircraft engines, propellers,appliances or components.

(3) A permit issued under subsection (2) shall be subjectto such conditions as may be specified by the DirectorGeneral. It shall be duty of the person or body of persons asthe case may be, to whom such permit is issued, to complywith such conditions.

49.(1) Any person or body of persons who acts inviolation of the requirements of section 48 shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act.

(2) Where the Director General has reasonable cause tobelieve that an offence under this section is beingcommitted, he or any other officer authorized in writing inthat behalf, may enter the premises where the offence is

Prohibition onmanufacture,assemble &c., ofaircraft without apermit.

Effect ofviolating theprovisions ofsection 48.

30Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

believed to have been committed and seize and take intocustody any aircraft, part of any aircraft or any design, as thecase may be, together with all tools and equipment beingused for the commission of such offence.

(3) Anything seized under subsection (2) shall be kept inthe custody of the Director General and upon conviction ofthe accused of the offence, the Court shall make an appropriateorder for their forfeiture or destruction in such manner as thecourt shall direct.

(4) In the event of the accused being acquitted of theoffence, the court shall order the immediate release ofanything seized under subsection (2), and the DirectorGeneral shall be exempt from liability for any damage causedto anything so seized while it was in his custody, unless it isproved that such damage was caused due to his negligence.

(5) The Director General or any officer authorized inwriting in that behalf by the Director General undersubsection (2), shall for the purposes of this section, bedeemed to be peace officers within the meaning and forthe purposes of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15of 1979.

50.No aircraft shall fly or attempt to fly in or over theterritory of Sri Lanka, unless there is in force in respectthereof a Certificate of Airworthiness, duly issued or renderedvalid by the appropriate authority of the country in whichsuch aircraft is registered or where applicable, a Certificateissued or rendered valid by the appropriate authority of theState of the operator and provided that the conditions, ifany, subject to which such Certificate was issued or renderedvalid, are duly complied with and the requirements underwhich such Certificate was issued or rendered valid are equalto or above the minimum standards which may be establishedfrom time to time under the Convention.

51.(1) A Certificate of Airworthiness in respect of anyaircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall be issued by the DirectorGeneral in accordance with the prescribed requirements.

Prohibitionagainst flyingoverSri Lankawithout aCertificate ofAirworthiness.

Issue ofCertificates ofAirworthiness.

31Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) The Director General may notwithstanding theprovisions of subsection (1), permit an aircraft to be flownwithin the territory of Sri Lanka without a Certificate ofAirworthiness for the purpose of experiment or test or anyother purpose, provided that in such instance the aircraftmay not be flown otherwise than in accordance with suchconditions or limitations as are specified by the DirectorGeneral.

(3) A Certificate of Airworthiness issued under subsection(1) shall be valid for such period as shall be specified in suchCertificate, which period shall not in any event exceed oneyear from the date of issue of such Certificate. A Certificateso issued may be renewed at the end of its period of validity,on application being made in that behalf to the DirectorGeneral.

(4) Where any defect is found in any aircraft registered inSri Lanka, which renders the aircraft unsafe for flight, theDirector General may suspend the Certificate ofAirworthiness until such time as the defect is corrected. TheDirector General shall cancel the Certificate of Airworthinesswhere an aircraft is deemed permanently not airworthy.Where a Certificate is cancelled, it shall be the duty of theholder of such Certificate to immediately hand over theCertificate to the Director-General.

52.The Director General shall have the power to validatefor such period not exceeding three months, as may bedetermined by the Director General, a Certificate ofAirworthiness issued by any other country on applicationmade in that behalf by the owner or operator of such aircraft.

CHAPTER VI

SEARCH AND RESCUE OPERATIONS AND INVESTIGATION INTO

ACCIDENTS AND INCIDENTS

53.The procedures to be followed in the provision andco-ordination of necessary measures of assistance to be givento an aircraft in distress shall be as determined by the

Validation ofCertificates ofAirworthiness.

Assistance toaircrafts indistress.

32Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Requisitioning ofaircrafts andcalling out offlight crew forair search andrescueoperations.

Authority by rules made in that behalf. Such rules shall bebased on the applicable SARPS relating to the same.

54.(1) The Minister or any person authorized in thatbehalf by the Minister may at any time, in order to facilitateany air search or rescue operations, requisition any civilaircraft from its owner or operator, as the case may be, andalso call out for services of any person whose services maybecome essential to assist in such air search or rescueoperations.

(2) Compensation in respect of requisition of any aircraftand payment to persons whose services were called out forunder subsection (1), shall be payable at such rate as may bedetermined by the Minister, in consultation with the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance.

(3) Where any air search and rescue operations areundertaken by the State in connection with any occurrencewhich was caused by the negligent or other unlawful act oromission of any person, the Minister may recover from suchperson the whole or any portion of the expenses incurred bythe State in connection with such operations,notwithstanding the fact that the aircraft concerned is aforeign aircraft and the services in question were renderedelsewhere than within the territory of the Republic ofSri Lanka.

(4) Any person who without lawful reason refuses or failsto comply with any order or instruction made or given undersubsection (1), shall be guilty of an offence.

55.(1) The Authority shall in accordance with suchregulations as may be prescribed, institute an investigationinto any accident or incident arising out of or in the courseof air navigation, where such accident or incident hadoccurred within the territory of Sri Lanka or is in respect of

Aircraft accidentor incidentinvestigations.

33Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka or an aircraft operated byan operator of Sri Lanka, for the purpose of :

(a)determining the facts, conditions and circumstancesrelating to the accident or incident and the probablecause thereof; and

(b)ensuring the prevention of any such similaraccidents or incidents from occurring in the future,and not for the purpse of apportioning blame orliability.

(2) The Minister shall in prescribing regulations forpurpose of subsection (1), comply with the applicable SARPSrelating to investigations into aircraft accidents or incidents,as the case may be.

56.(1) For the purpose of carrying out an investigationunder section 55, the Authority may appoint an AircraftAccident Investigation Board with regard to each suchaircraft accident or incident, as the case may be (hereinafterin this Chapter referred to as the Board), consisting ofsuch number of persons as may be determined by theAuthority, one of whom shall act as its Chief Investigator.The Authority however shall not appoint as a member ofany Board, a member of the staff of the Authority or anyperson who has any connection with the accident or incidentwhich such Board is required to investigate.

(2) The Authority shall, when appointing a Board undersubsection (1), stipulate the terms and conditions to becomplied with by the members of the Board in conductingan investigation.

(3) The functions of the Board appointed under subsection(1) shall cease with the submission to the Authority of thefinal report of the Board on such accident or incident whichit was appointed to investigate.

(4) The Authority may arrange for representation to bemade at an investigation carried out in respect of any aircraftregistered in Sri Lanka, by a State in which such accident orincident occurred.

Appointment ofAircraft AccidentInvestigationBoard.

34Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

57.(1) Every member of the Board shall before enteringupon his duties, sign a declaration pledging himself or herselfto observe strict secrecy in respect all information disclosedat the investigation and shall by such declaration, pledgehimself or herself, not to divulge any such informationexcept:

(a)when required to do so by a court of law;

(b)in the performance of his or her duties as a memberof the Board; or

(c)in order to comply with any provision of this Act orany regulation or rule made thereunder.

(2) All investigations to be carried out by the Board, shallbe conducted in camera.

58.(1) The Board in the course of an investigation intoan accident or incident shall have the power to:

(a)summon under its Chief Investigators hand andcall before it and examine all such persons whom itconsiders necessary;

(b)require any person summoned to answer anyquestion or furnish any information or produce anybooks, papers, documents or articles which theBoard may consider relevant and to retain any suchbooks, papers, documents and articles, until thecompletion of the investigation;

(c)take statements from all such persons as it considersnecessary and to require any such person to makeand sign a declaration relating to the truth of thestatement made by him;

(d)have unhampered and unrestricted access to theaircraft wreckage, flight recorders, air traffic records,the place where the accident occurred and to anyother relevant material and for that purpose to

Declaration ofSecrecy.

Power tosummon andexaminewitnesses andproductions.

35Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

require the aircraft concerned or any part of theequipment thereof to be preserved unaltered, toenable a detailed investigation to be made withoutdelay;

(e)examine, remove, test, take measures for thepreservation of and otherwise deal with the aircraftor any part thereof or anything contained therein ;

(f)enter and inspect any place or building where itappears to be requisite for the purposes of theinvestigation; and

(g)take all measures necessary for the preservation ofevidence.

(2) An investigation instituted by the Authority undersection 55 shall in no way be considered as being inderogation of any power which under any other law mayattach to any police, judicial or other investigation, providedthat the Board shall have priority in the examination of therelevant evidence.

(3) It shall be an offence for any unauthorized person toremove or keep in his custody any part of an aircraft involvedin an accident or incident or any documents or other articlesthereof, to tamper with other evidence or to remove or keepin his or her custody any belongings of passengers ormembers of the crew or cargo carried in that aircraft.

(4) Where any accident has occurred within the territoryof Sri Lanka to an aircraft registered in a State Party to theConvention and any person dies or suffers any serious injuryor the aircraft suffers substantial damage, the Authority shallauthorize the accredited representative of the State ofRegistry or where applicable, the State of the operator, theState of design of the aircraft, the State of the manufacture ofthe aircraft, the States of which the victims are nationals andany other State considered appropriate by the Authority, toparticipate in the investigation.

36Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (4), theAuthority may in consultation with the Minister, delegatethe actual performance of the investigation to a dulyauthorized investigator or investigators of the State wheresuch aircraft is registered, or, if applicable, the State of theOperator or of any other State considered as appropriate bythe Authority, who shall perform such function in accordancewith the provisions of this Chapter of this Act and anyregulations or rules made thereunder and under thesupervision of the Authority. In the event of such delegationthe Authority shall, so far as it is able, facilitate suchinvestigations.

(6) No person summoned as a witness at an investigationshall:

(a)disobey a summons issued by the Board ;

(b)refuse to be sworn in or to make an affirmation as awitness ;

(c)fail to answer any question which he or she islawfully required to answer ; or

(d)refuse or fail to produce any documents or part orcomponent of an aircraft which he or she is lawfullyrequired to produce.

(7)It shall be an offence to obstruct or impede the Boardor any person acting under the authority of the Board, in theexercise or performence of any powers or duties under thisChapter.

59.(1) Where any accident occurs outside the territoryof Sri Lanka to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka and anyperson dies or suffers serious injury or the aircraft sufferssubstantial damage, the Authority shall authorize anaccredited representative to participate in any investigationor inquiry that may be conducted by the country in whichthe accident occurred or may authorize the Board to conductan investigation into any matter connected with suchaccident.

AccidentsoutsideSri Lanka.

37Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) Where any accident occurs outside the territory ofSri Lanka to any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, and anyperson dies or suffers serious injury or the aircraft sufferssubstantial damage, the Director General shall furnish anycountry which conducts an investigation or inquiry outsidethe territory of Sri Lanka, with all information in hispossession that may be relevant to the conduct of suchinvestigation.

60.(1) On the conclusion of an investigation, the Boardshall prepare a report in such manner as shall be prescribed,stating the circumstances of the case and the conclusion asto the probable cause or causes of the accident or incident,including any observations and recommendations which itthinks fit to make with a view to the preservation of life andthe avoidance of similar occurrences in the future. The reportshall be submitted to the Authority and the Authority maycause the whole or any part of such report to be published insuch manner as it thinks fit.

(2) The Authority shall send with the minimum delay,the draft copy of the final report to such persons andorganizations, as may be prescribed.

(3) At the time of the submission of the report to theAuthority, the Board shall also provide the Authority withany safety information that came to its knowledge duringthe conduct of the investigation, the confidentiality of whichthe Board considers should be maintained and the Authorityupon receipt of any such safety information, shall recordand preserve the same in accordance with the State SafetyProgramme established under section 116 of this Act.

61.The Authority or the Board shall not make thefollowing records available to any person for any purpose,other than for any future investigation relating to an accidentor incident:

(a)all statements recorded by the Board in the courseof its investigation ;

Authority not tomake availablecertain records.

Board to preparea report.

38Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)all communications between persons involved inthe accident or incident ;

(c)medical or personal information regarding personsinvolved in the accident or incident;

(d)cockpit voice recordings, flight data recordings,recordings from the air traffic control units andtranscripts from such recordings ;

(e)opinions expressed on the analysis of information,including flight recorder information; and

(f)any records not directly related to the analysis ofthe accident or incident investigated.

62.The members of the Board appointed under section56 shall, so long as they are acting as such members, bedeemed to be public servants within the meaning of thePenal Code.

63.(1) Notwithstanding the submission of a report undersection 60, where subsequent to the completion of theinvestigation, certain new evidence pertaining to theaccident or the incident which was investigated has beendiscovered, which in the opinion of the Authority wouldhave had a significant impact or bearing on the outcome ofthe investigation that was concluded, the Authority shallorder for such investigation to be re-opened.

(2) Where the Authority order the re-opening of aninvestigation under subsection (1), the Authority may, at itsdiscretion order such investigation to be carried out, eitherby the same Board which conducted the initial investigationor appoint a new Board under section 56 to conduct thesame.

(3) The provision of this Chapter of this Act relating tothe conduct of an investigation into any accident or incident,shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to and in regard to the conductof any re-opened investigation under subsection (1).

Members of theBoard deemedto be publicservants.

Re-opening ofan investigation.

39Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

64.The Director-General shall on the basis of thefindings of an investigation, whether interim or final, takeimmediate remedial steps and corrective action which heconsiders necessary in the interest of aviation safety,regularity or efficiency or to prevent similar accidents orincidents happening in the future.

65.For the purposes of this Chapter of this Act:

accident means an occurrence associated with theoperation of an aircraft which in the case of a mannedaircraft, takes place between the time any personboards the aircraft with the intention of flight, untilsuch time as all such persons have disembarked orin the case of an unmanned aircraft, takes placebetween the time the aircraft is ready to move withthe purpose of flight until such time it comes to restat the end of the flight and the primary propulsionsystem is shut down, and in which:

(a)a person is fatally or otherwise seriouslyinjured, as a result of being in the aircraft orhaving direct contact with any part of theaircraft including any part which has becomedetached from the aircraft or being exposeddirectly to jet blast, as the case may be;

(b)the aircraft sustains damage or structuralfailure which adversely affects its structuralstrength, performance or flight characteristicsof the aircraft and would under normalcircumstances require a major repair orreplacement of the affected components; or

(c)the aircraft is missing or is completelyinaccessible;

Director-Generalto take remedialsteps.

Interpretation.

40Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

accredited representative means a persondesignated by a State to represent such State, forthe purpose of participating in an investigationconducted by a Board appointed under section 56of this Act; and

incident means an occurrence associated with theoperation of an aircraft other than an accident,which affects or could affect the safety of suchoperation.

CHAPTER VII

AVIATION PERSONNEL AND TRAINING INSTITUTIONS

66.(1) For purpose of ensuring the security and safetyof civil aviation activities, the Minister shall in compliancewith the international obligations of Sri Lanka under theConvention, prescribe by regulations the procedure to befollowed for the issue of licences, ratings, certificates ofcompetency or permits that should be conferred upon allpersonnel or institutions involved in or connected with thecarrying on of prescribed civil aviation activities.

(2) Regulations made under subsection (1) shall specifythe activities for which a licence, rating, certificate ofcompetency or permit should be obtained, the qualificationsand other requirements that should be satisfied, applicationprocedure, terms and conditions to be complied with, fees tobe paid, privileges to be granted to the holder of any suchlicence, rating, certificate of competency or permit, groundsfor amendment, suspension and revocation of such licence,rating, certificate of competency or permit and for theirrenewal.

(3) No person who is required by regulations made undersubsection (1) to obtain a licence, rating, certificate ofcompetency or permit for the purpose of engaging in anycivil aviation activity as specified therein, shall engage in

Regulations tobe made forobtaininglicences etc. bypersonnel.

41Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

such activity without obtaining an appropriate licence,rating, certificate of competency or permit, as the case maybe, for the same.

(4) A person shall not engage any other person in anyactivity which requires a licence, rating, certificate ofcompetency or permit under this Chapter of this Act, unlessthe person so engaging is satisfied beyond any doubt, thatthe person being engaged holds a valid licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit, as the case may be.

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),regulations made under subsection (1) may also provide forthe validation of a licence, rating, certificate of competencyor permit issued by a State Party to the Convention, providedthat the requirements under which such licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit was issued by suchState Party to the Convention, are equal to or higherthan the requirements specified in the regulations prescribedfor the implementation of Standards for the issue of suchlicence, rating, certificate of competency or permit, as thecase may be.

67.Every licence, rating, certificate of competency, andpermit referred to in section 66, shall be issued by theDirector General or on his behalf by any other personspecifically authorized in writing by him and the DirectorGeneral or such other person acting on his behalf shall havethe power to amend, suspend or revoke any such licence,rating, certificate of competency or permit issued, as thecase may be, for any reason as may be prescribed under thatsection.

68.(1) No person who holds a licence, rating, certificateof competency or permit issued by the Director General shallperform the activities for which such licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit has been issued, if hebecomes aware of an illness or other physical or mentalimpairment suffered by him, including fatigue, that mightjeopardize the safe performance of his duties.

The issue,suspension andrevocation of alicence, rating,certificates ofcompetency orpermit.

Physical ormentalimpairment.

42Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) Where an operator becomes aware of any physical ormental impairment including fatigue being suffered by anyemployee of such operator, which is likely to jeopardize thesafe performance of his duties, it shall be the duty of suchoperator to forthwith take all necessary measures to preventsuch employee from continuing to carry on such duties.

(3) A contravention by a person of the provisions ofsubsections (1) or (2) of this section shall be an offenceunder this Act and be punishable with a fine not exceedingthe equivalent in Sri Lanka rupees of twenty-five thousandSDR and shall in addition to such punishment, be liable tohave any licence, rating, certificate of competency or permitissued to such person under this Chapter of this Act, to becancelled.

(4) The Director-General shall have the power to issuedirectives concerning limitation on duty periods and restperiods applicable to a holder of any licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit issued under this Chapterof this Act, in order to guard against an onset of fatigue andit shall be the duty of the holder of such licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit to comply with suchdirectives. Any employer of the holder of any licence, rating,certificate of competency or permit who prevents such holderfrom complying with any directives so issued, shall be guiltyof an offence.

(5) Wherever the Director General deems it expedient ornecessary, he shall have the power to require any personwho holds any licence, rating, certificate of competency orpermit issued under this Chapter of this Act, to under-go amedical check-up at any time and it shall be the duty of suchperson to comply with such requirement. A refusal to complyshall be deemed to be an offence under this Act and theDirector-General shall have the power, in addition to anypunishment that may be imposed for such offence by a court,to cancel any licence, rating certificate of competency orpermit issued to such person by the Director General.

43Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

69.(1) The Director General shall have the authority toissue a licence or permit, as the case may be, to any person orinstitution to provide such training courses in respect ofactivities prescribed under section 66 for which a certificateof competency or a licence or permit is required, where he issatisfied as to the adequacy of the course content, thesuitability of the training equipment and facilities and thecompetency of the instructors.

(2) The qualification of instructors to be employed, thenature of the equipment and other facilities that should beavailable in order to be qualified to be issued with a licenceor permit under subsection (1) to provide training coursesand the fees payable for the issue, renewal and amendmentof such licence or permit, shall be as prescribed.

(3) A licence or permit under subsection (1) shall be issuedfor a period not exceeding one year, which may thereafter berenewed in each case for a further period not exceeding oneyear. The Director General may suspend or revoke any licenceor permit issued, for any one or more reasons as may beprescribed.

CHAPTER VIII

AIRCRAFT OPERATION

70.(1) No aircraft registered in Sri Lanka shall fly withinor outside the territory of Sri Lanka, unless it carries onboard a valid Certificate of Registration and a Certificate ofAirworthiness issued under section 42 and section 51respectively, of this Act, such minimum equipment andoperating crew and any other documents required to becarried thereon as prescribed under this Act.

(2) No aircraft other than an aircraft registered inSri Lanka, shall fly within the territory of Sri Lanka, unlessit carries on board a valid licence or certificate issued onregistration of that aircraft, minimum equipment and

AviationTrainingInstitutions.

Documents,equipment,number anddescription ofthe operatingcrew.

44Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

operating crew and any other documents required to becarried therein by the law of the State in which such aircraftis registered or the State of the operator, or in the absence ofboth, as required by Article 29 of the Convention.

(3) The members of the operating crew of every aircraftreferred to in this section shall hold the prescribed certificatesof competency, licences, rating or authority issued orrendered valid by the State in which such aircraft is registeredor where applicable by the State of the operator.

(4) The Minister shall prescribe the types of log booksrequired to be maintained and the applicable requirementsrelating to their maintenance, in respect of aircraft, engines,propellers, equipment or personnel involved in themaintenance and operations of aircraft.

71. (1) The Minister shall in compliance with the relevantSARPS, prescribe the Rules of the Air, the manner in whichan aircraft may be moved or flown, the lights and other signalsto be shown or made by an aircraft or persons, the lightingand marking of Aerodromes and any other provisions forsecuring the safety of an aircraft in flight and in movementand safety of person and property on land or water.

(2) It shall be the duty of every Pilot-in-Command of anaircraft to comply with the Rules of the Air prescribed by theMinister under subsection (1).

(3) Every aircraft registered in Sri Lanka on aninternational flight, wheresoever such aircraft may be, shallobserve the Rules of the Air that are in force in that countryand while flying over the high seas or areas of undeterminedsovereignty, the Rules of the Air to be observed shall bethose established under the Convention.

(4) A Pilot-in-Command of an aircraft registered inSri Lanka who fails to observe the Rules of the Air as requiredunder subsection (2) and (3) of this section, shall, in addition

Rules of the Air.

45Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

to any penalty that may be imposed for such violation, bealso liable to have the licence issued to him by the DirectorGeneral under section 67 suspended or cancelled, as thecase may be.

72.(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of section71, a Pilot-in-Command shall

(a)be responsible for the safe operation of the aircraftin flight, safety and well being of all the passengersand crew and safety of the cargo being carried;

(b)have the final authority to control the aircraft whilein command and maintain discipline among allpersons on board; and

(c)subject to the provisions of subsection (2), beresponsible for compliance with all relevantrequirements imposed under this Act, anyregulations or rules made thereunder and theimplementing standards relating to aircraftoperations.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), aPilot-in-Command may in an emergency, deviate fromcomplying with any provisions of this Act or any regulationsor rules made thereunder or any implementing standardsrelating to aircraft operations, where he is satisfied that:

(a)the emergency involves a danger to life or property;

(b) the deviation is necessary in order to deal with theemergency situation;

(c) there are no reasonable means available foralleviating or avoiding the emergency; and

(d) the degree of danger involved in complying withthe requirements of this Act or any regulations or

Actions by aPilot-in-Command in anemergency.

46Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

rules made thereunder or any implementingstandards relating to air craft operations, ismanifestly greater in degree than the dangerinvolved in deviating from them.

(3) Where a Pilot-in-Command in an emergency deviatesfrom any requirements under subsection (2), he shall:

(a) forthwith notify the relevant air traffic control ofsuch deviation; and

(b) notify the Director General as soon as practicableof such deviation and where required by theDirector-General, submit a written report relatingto his actions.

(4) In the event of any national emergency, calamity,crisis or disaster and for the sole purpose of rescuing lives orproperty or providing relief to the parties affected or is likelyto be affected from such an event, the Director General shallin so far as the same is necessary for dealing with suchemergency, calamity, crisis or disaster, have the power tosuspend temporarily the application of one or morerequirements imposed by of this Act or any regulations, rulesor implementing standard made thereunder or any directivesissued thereunder. The Director General shall in respect ofeach such occasion that any such temporary suspension hasbeen effected, submit a written report to the Minister whichshall contain a detailed account of the suspension in question.The Minister shall cause such report to be tabled inParliament.

73.(1) No aircraft registered in Sri Lanka or any aircraftused by an operator licensed under this Act shall, on thebasis of any lease, charter, interchange or similararrangement, be operated other than under and in accordancewith the terms of an Air Operator Certificate issued by theDirector General to the owner or operator of such aircraft.

Air OperatorCertificate.

47Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) Commercial air transport operations into or out ofSri Lanka performed by a foreign air operator, shall be inaccordance with the terms of a Foreign Air OperatorCertificate issued by the Director General to such foreign airoperator. In issuing such a Certificate, the Director Generalshall ensure that such foreign air operator has been issuedwith a valid Air Operator Certificate or as equivalent in thecountry in which such foreign operator is carrying onbusiness and further that adequate provision has been madeby the authority who issued such Air Operator Certificate, toensure that the foreign air operator conforms to and complieswith the standards, practices and procedures set out in theConvention and the Annexes to the Convention.

(3) An Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign Air OperatorCertificate referred to in subsection (1) or (2), shall not beissued by the Director General, where an operator or ownerof an aircraft or a foreign air operator, as the case may be,who applies for an Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign AirOperator Certificate, as the case may be, poses or is likely topose a threat to the national security of Sri Lanka or tointernational civil aviation.

(4) The Director General shall on the payment of aprescribed fee, process an application made under subsection(1) or subsection (2), as the case may be, and shall for thatpurpose conduct such investigation as he may considernecessary, in accordance with such regulations as may beprescribed, giving effect to the applicable standards andany associated requirements.

(5) Every Air Operator Certificate and Foreign AirOperator Certificate issued under this section, shall be subjectto the operations specifications specified in the Certificateissued and to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed.It shall be the obligation of the holder of such Certificate toensure that operations are carried out in strict conformitywith the operations specifications specified and such termsand conditions prescribed, and that such operations do not

48Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

breach any requirements imposed under the provisions ofthis Act or any regulations, rules, implementing standardsor directives issued thereunder or any obligations imposedupon Sri Lanka under any agreement entered into with anyother country.

(6) An Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign Air OperatorCertificate shall be valid for a period not exceeding oneyear from the date of its issue and may be renewed for afurther period not exceeding one year in each case, providedthat the requirements imposed for the holding such Certificateis maintained to the satisfaction of the Director General.

(7) An operation of an aircraft, without a valid AirOperator Certificate or a foreign Air Operator Certificate, asthe case may be, issued under this section or in contraventionof any terms or conditions of any such Certificate issued,shall be subject to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in SriLanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR or per each day of theinfraction.

74.No person shall be granted approval by the DirectorGeneral for the importation of an aircraft, unless:

(a)the Director General is satisfied that the aircraft tobe imported shall be operated under an Air OperatorCertificate issued under section 73 of this Act; and

(b)the person concerned complies with suchrequirements as may be prescribed for that purpose.

75.(1) Every holder of an Air Operator Certificate or aForeign Air Operator Certificate, as the case may be,operating within Sri Lanka or internationally, to, from orthrough Sri Lanka, shall keep in force at all times a liabilityinsurance adequately covering his liability for death orbodily injury to passengers which may be caused by anaccident and for the loss of or damage to baggage, cargo ormail, due to any event during the period of carriage and forthe delay in the carriage of passengers, baggage, cargo or

Liabilityinsurance.

Importation ofaircraft.

49Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

mail. Such person shall also be required to have a valid andadequate insurance policy covering his liability for damagethat may be caused by the aircraft to third parties, on thesurface or in the air.

(2) In determining the adequacy of the liability insurancecover referred to in subsection (1), a holder of an AirOperator Certificate or a Foreign Air Operator Certificate, asthe case may be, shall take into consideration whether:

(a)the insurance provides a comprehensive cover foractual and potential obligation of the personinsured, in respect of all of his proposed activities;

(b)the insurer is authorized to effect such insuranceunder the laws of the country where the aircraft isregistered or the country where the insurer has hisresidence or the principal place of business andwhose financial responsibility has been verified;and

(c)the insurance provides comprehensive cover forobligations that may arise due to death, bodilyinjury or damage to property caused by the aircraftto third parties on surface or in the air.

(3) The Director General shall determine the minimumlimits of insurance cover that is required to be obtained,depending on the nature and scope of operations beingcarried on by the holder of the relevant Certificate.

76.(1) The Director General may where he considers itappropriate and upon a request made in that behalf by aholder of a Certificate and on the payment of the prescribedfee, amend an Air Operator Certificate or a Foreign AirOperator Certificate, as the case may be, issued to such holder,varying the privileges or limitations granted under suchCertificate.

Amendment,suspension andrevocation ofAir OperatorCertificates.

50Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2)The Director General shall have the power to suspendor revoke at anytime, any Air Operator Certificate or aForeign Air Operator Certificate, as the case may be, issuedby him if the conditions under which the Certificate wasissued changes or if the holder fails to comply with theoperations specifications specified in the Certificate issued,any conditions prescribed under subsection (5) of section73, the requirements imposed by sections 75 or any otherrequirements imposed under the provisions of this Act orany regulations, rules, implementing standards or directives,made or issued thereunder.

77.(1) An aircraft which is registered in a State party tothe Convention other than Sri Lanka, may be operated inSri Lanka under an agreement for the lease, charter orinterchange of the aircraft or any other similar arrangement,provided that an agreement has been reached with regard tothe transfer of functions and duties relating to safety over-sight and its operations, between the aeronautical authorityof the State with which such aircraft is registered and theDirector General pursuant to Article 83 bis to theConvention, and the application of the provisions of thisAct or any regulations or rules made thereunder shall be tothe extent specified in such agreement.

(2) The Director General may, where he considers itfeasible and subject to the approval of the Authority, agreewith the aviation authorities of any other State Party to theConvention, for the transfer of the functions and dutiesrelating to safety oversight of an aircraft registered inSri Lanka, which is to be operated by an operator of suchother State Party, pursuant to an agreement for the lease,charter or interchange of the aircraft or any other similararrangement and the nature and scope of the duties andfunctions so transferred to such other State Party, shall be tothe extent mentioned in such agreement.

(3) The Director General may for a period not exceedingthree months and subject to such conditions as may be

Aircraftoperated underan agreementfor lease, charteror interchangeof aircraft.

51Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

prescribed, waive the requirement imposed under subsection(1) in respect of an operator who already holds a valid AirOperator Certificate, provided that the proposed arrangementin the opinion of the Director General, meets the requirementsin respect of safety.

78.(1) For the purpose of ensuring the safety of airnavigation and of persons traveling on board an aircraft, theMinister shall in compliance with the applicable SARPS,prescribe the requirements to be satisfied for classificationspacking, labeling and marking, handling and carriage ofdangerous goods by air and the fees payable for the grant ofa permit for handling or transporting such dangerous goodsby air.

(2) The Director General shall by directives issued in thatbehalf, specify the procedure that should be adhered to inrespect of classification, packing, labeling and marking,handling and carriage of dangerous goods permitted to becarried on board an aircraft, emergency procedures,investigation into accidents or incidents involvingdangerous goods and the training required for personsinvolved in handling such consignments of dangerousgoods. The Director General shall also have the power fromtime to time, to issue such implementing instructions asmay become necessary for the purpose of giving effect toany directives issued by him under this subsection or anyrequirements prescribed under this section.

(3) Munitions or any other implements of war shallnot be carried by any aircraft within the territory of Sri Lankaor by any aircraft registered in Sri Lanka, except on theauthority of a permit issued by the Director General for thatpurpose.

(4) Any person who fails to comply with the requirementsimposed by this section or any regulations, directives orimplementing instructions issued thereunder, shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act and shall on conviction be

Carriage ofdangerousgoods.

52Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

liable to a fine the equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of twentyfive thousand SDR or to imprisonment not exceeding twoyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

79.(1) The Authority with the assistance of the ServiceProvider appointed for the provision of Air Traffic Servicesshall, in accordance with the applicable SARPS and theRegional Air Navigation Plan, determine and publish theair routes and air navigation procedures to be followed bycivil aircraft for their entry, exit, transit or movements withinthe Sri Lanka Flight Information Region.

(2) The Authority shall amend the air routes determinedunder subsection (1) whenever it becomes necessary, so asto keep them up to date with any changes that may havebeen made to the applicable SARPS or to the design of theRegional Air Navigation Plan, as the case may be.

80.An aircraft capable of being flown without a pilotshall not be operated within the territory of Sri Lanka, exceptunder the authority and in accordance with the terms andconditions of a special permit issued by the Director Generalfor that purpose and on the payment of the prescribed fee.

81.(1) No aircraft shall be acrobatically flown nor shallany exhibition, competition, formation flying or air showbe performed within the territory of Sri Lanka, except underthe authority of a special permit issued by the DirectorGeneral for that purpose and on the payment of the prescribedfee.

(2) The Director General may issue a permit referred to insubsection (1), on being satisfied that the flight safety in theairspace and the safety of the general public and property,are not endangered by activities in respect of which suchpermit is to be issued and may further require the organizersof any such exhibition, competition, formation flying or airshow, to provide proof of adequate public liability insurancefor any damage that may be caused.

Determining airroutes.

Pilotlessaircrafts.

Acrobaticflying, flightexhibitions,competitionsand air shows.

53Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

82.(1) Where an aircraft is flown in such a manner as tocause unnecessary danger to any person or property on landor water

(a)the Pilot-in-Command and the operator of theaircraft ; or

(b)where there is no operator, the Pilot-in-Commandand the owner of the aircraft,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on convictionbe liable to a fine the equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees oftwenty five thousand SDR or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(2) An operator or owner, as the case may be, may wheresuch operator or owner is able to prove to the satisfaction ofthe court that such aircraft was flown in the manner referredto in subsection (1) without its knowledge or consent, beexempt from liability for an offence under that subsection.

(3) The provisions of this section shall be in addition toand not in substitution of any general safety or otherprovisions of this Act or any regulations, rules orimplementing standards that may be made or issued underthis Act.

83.Every person who on board an aircraft registered inSri Lanka, while on flight, whether within or outside theterritory of Sri Lanka or a foreign aircraft while on flightwithin the territory of Sri Lanka

(a)assault, intimidate, threaten or commit any similaract against a crew member ;

(b)refuse to follow a lawful instruction given by thePilot-in-Command or on his behalf by a crewmember, relating to any matter which affects thesafety or security of the aircraft or its passengers ;

Dangerous flightoperations

Offencescommitted onboard anaircraft.

54Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(c) assaults, intimidate or threatens any passenger ;

(d)engage in smoking in any part or section of theaircraft ;

(e)intentionally causes damage or destruction to theaircraft or any part thereof ;

(f)engage in any indecent behavior ;

(g)tampers with a smoke detector or any other safetydevice installed on board the aircraft ;

(h)operates any portable electronic device when suchact is prohibited under the law applicable to thataircraft ; or

(i)removes without the approval of the Pilot-in-Command, any safety or emergency equipment,device or document or any other equipment ordevice found in the aircraft,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on convictionbe liable to a fine equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of twenty-five thousand SDR or to imprisonment for a term notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

CHAPTER IXCOMMERCIAL AIR TRANSPORTATION

84.(1) No person shall engage in domestic orinternational commercial air transportation based inSri Lanka, except in accordance with an Airline Licenceissued by the Authority under section 87 in the formprescribed for that purpose.

(2) No foreign air operator shall engage in any commercialair transportation to or from Sri Lanka, except in accordancewith a Foreign Airline Licence issued by the Authority undersection 89, in the form prescribed for that purpose.

Airline Licenceand ForeignAirline Licence.

55Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

85.(1) No aerial work shall be carried on within theterritory of Sri Lanka, except in accordance with a licenceissued for that purpose by the Authority in the prescribedmanner.

(2) Any person who holds an appropriate Air OperatorCertificate and possess such qualifications as determined bythe Authority by rules made in that behalf, shall be eligibleto apply for a licence under subsection (1) to engage in aerialwork.

86.An Airline Licence or a Foreign Airline Licenceissued under this Act shall specify the nature and scope ofthe activities that the air operator is authorized to engage incommercial air transportation and shall contain theprivileges, conditions and limitations applicable to theservice to be rendered.

87.(1) The following shall be eligible to obtain anAirline Licence for domestic or international commercial airtransportation based in Sri Lanka:

(a)a citizen of Sri Lanka ;

(b)a registered body of persons having its principalplace of business in Sri Lanka and in which at leastfifty-one per centum of the share capital is ownedby citizens of Sri Lanka ; or

(c)any person or body of persons approved by theCabinet of Ministers.

(2) The Authority may issue an Airline Licence onapplication made in that behalf by any person referred to insubsection (1) and on being satisfied that the applicanthas complied with the requirements determined undersubsection (3).

(3) The Authority shall determine by rules made in thatbehalf, the information necessary to be submitted by a person

Privileges,conditions andlimitationsattached.

An AirlineLicence fordomestic orinternationalcommercial airtransportation.

Aerial work.

56Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

applying for an Airline Licence, in order to prove compliancewith the following requirements :

(a)that the applicant holds a valid Air OperatorCertificate ;

(b)that the proposed domestic commercial air transportoperations are financially secured by actual assets,bank guarantees or other security for a period notless than three years from the proposed launchingof the services ;

(c)that adequate and valid liability insurance cover asdetermined on the guidelines referred to insubsection (2) of section 75, is held for any damagethat may arise out of its proposed operations ;

(d)that an effective program drawn in accordance withthe National Aviation Security Programmeformulated by the Authority under section 17, forprotection against unlawful interference with civilaviation is in place, which has been approved bythe Director General ; and

(e)that the applicant fulfills any other requirements asmay be prescribed for that purpose.

88. (1) The Authority may where it considers itnecessary by Order published in the Gazette and subject tosuch terms and conditions as may be specified in such Order,make available to any person to whom an Air Line Licneceis issued, any immovable property which is in the possessionof the Authority, for the purpose of enabling such licenceholder to provide domestic or international commercial airtransportation in Sri Lanka under such licence.

(2) It shall be the duty of the holder of an Airline Licenceto whom any property is made available under subsection(1), to comply with the terms and conditions stipulated in

Immovableproperty to bemade availableto a personissued with anAirline Licence.

57Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

the Order and hold and maintain such immovable propertyin good condition.

(3) The holder of an Airline Licence to whom anyimmovable property is made available, shall not

(a)sell or dispose of any such property; or

(b)except with the prior written approval of theAuthority,:

(i)effect any alteration in such property or putup any new constructions in such property;or

(ii)grant a lease of any such property to any otherperson.

89.(1) No Foreign Air Operator shall be issued with aForeign Airline Licence, unless such Foreign AirOperator

(a)has obtained a Foreign Air Operator Certificate fromthe Director General ;

(b)has adequate and valid insurance cover asdetermined on the guidelines referred to insubsection (2) of section 75, to cover liability whichmay arise from its operations ; and

(c)has in place an effective program drawn inaccordance with the Aviation Security Programmeformulated by the Authority under section 17, forprotection against unlawful interference with civilaviation.

(2) The Authority may issue a Foreign Air Licence onapplication made in that behalf by a Foreign Air Operator

Qualificationsfor the issue of aForeign AirlineLicence.

58Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

and upon being satisfied that such applicant has compliedwith

(a)the requirements imposed by subsection (1) ; and

(b)any other requirements that may be specified in theair service agreement that is entered into betweenSri Lanka and the respective aeronautical authorityof the State of the applicant.

90.(1) Where appropriate, the Authority may upon arequest made in that behalf by the holder of an Aerial WorkLicence, an Airline Licence or a Foreign Airline licence, asthe case may be, issued under section 85, 87 or 89 of thisAct, and on the payment of a prescribed fee, amend suchlicence.

(2) The Authority may at any time at its own discretion,where it considers it necessary in the interest of nationalsecurity, safety of air navigation or for the purpose ofensuring fair competition, amend an Aerial Work Licence,an Airline Licence, or a Foreign Airline Licence, as the casemay be, issued under section 85, 87 or 89 of this Act, by theincorporation of any additional conditions or limitations tosuch licence.

91.The Authority may at any time suspend or revokean Aerial Work Licence, an Airline Licence, or a ForeignAirline Licence, as the case may be, issued under section 85,87 or 89 of this Act, on any one or more of the followinggrounds:

(a)where the conditions under which the licence wasissued have changed ;

(b)where the licence holder or any aircraft operated bythe licenceholder, fails to comply with anyprovisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder or any term or condition of thelicence ;

Power to amenda licence issuedunder section85, 87, or 89 ofthis Act.

Power tosuspend orrevoke a licenceissued undersection 85, 87 or89.

59Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(c)where the licence holder fails to conform to orcomply with any term or condition of the relevantagreement or arrangement;

(d)in the case of the holder of a Foreign Airline Licence,where the Foreign Air Operator Certificate issuedunder section 74 of this Act to such holder, isrevoked ; or

(e)where the Authority is directed to suspend or revokesuch licence by the Minister who is of the opinionthat it is necessary or desirable to do so, for thepurpose of preserving or promoting fair competitionin international air transport services.

92.(1) No person other than such person as shall beprescribed for that purpose, shall provide any repair ormaintenance services to any Airline, except under theauthority of a permit issed for the same by the DirectorGeneral.

(2) The permit referred to in subsection (1) shall beobtained on application made to the Director General in theprescribed form, accompanied by the prescribed fee.

(3) The Director General may, on being satisfied with thetechnical competency and ability of the applicant to providemaintenance services to Airlines, issue a permit, subject tosuch terms and conditions as may be specified therein.

(4) A permit issued under this section shall be valid for aperiod of one year from the date of its issue and may berenewed at the end of that period on application made inthat behalf and on the payment of the prescribed renewalfee.

93.(1) Non-scheduled international air transportationmay be authorized by the Authority by the issue of a permit,upon a written application made in that behalf by an operatorin the manner prescribed, having regard to:

(a)public interest and in particular to the benefits toSri Lankas national economy; and

Maintenanceservices to beprovided onlyon a permitissued byDerectorGeneral.

Non- scheduledinternational airtransportation.

60Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)any adverse effect such authorization may have onscheduled international air transportation, betweenthe points of origin and the destination of suchflight.

(2) A permit issued under subsection (1) shall be subjectto such terms and conditions as shall be specified thereinand be valid for a period not more than one year from thedate of its issue. The Authority may renew a permit uponapplication made in that behalf and on the payment of theprescribed renewal fee.

(3) A permit issued under subsection (1) may be suspendedor cancelled, as the case may be, for the violation of anyterm or condition specified in such permit.

94.(1) The Authority may issue to any holder or categoryof holders of any licences or permits issued under this Chapterof this Act, directives, instructions or procedures in relationto conditions of carriage of passengers, baggage, cargo andmail, and dealing with liability for denied boarding andother issues, for the purpose of ensuring the protection ofpassengers and other users of the aircraft.

(2) It shall be the duty of all persons to whom any directive,instruction or procedure is issued under subsection (1) tostrictly comply with the same, and any failure to do so shallbe an offence under this Act.

95.Every holder of an Airline Licence or a ForeignAirline Licence shall in the manner prescribed, submit tothe Authority for its approval, the proposed flight schedulesin respect of its operations within Sri Lanka or for the arrivalto and departure from Sri Lanka, as the case may be. In thecase of an aircraft calling in Sri Lanka for non-traffic purposesor in the case of over-flight, the relevant information shallbe provided in the manner specified by the Authority.

Protection ofpassengers andusers of aircraft.

Flight schedules.

61Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

96.To ensure orderly flow of air traffic, the Authoritymay issue directives, instructions or procedures for theallocation of slots to air operators. In issuing directives,instructions or procedures, preference may be given toscheduled international air services:

Provided that the Authority shall endavour to ensurenon-discriminatory consideration of all requests.

97.(1) No person shall carry on the business of airtransportation in Sri Lanka, except under the authority of orotherwise than in accordance with the terms or conditions,of an Air Transport Service Licence issued in that behalf bythe Authority.

(2) Any person desiring to obtain a licence undersubsection (1), may submit an application for the sametogether with the prescribed fee and the Authority may issuea licence to such person where it is satisfied that the applicanthas complied with the requirements specified in subsection (3).

(3) The requirements that should be satisfied by a personfor the issue of a licence under this section, shall be theavailability of

(a)adequate infrastructure facilities and staffrequirements;

(b)adequate financial arrangements necessary fordischarging the actual and potential obligations inrespect of the business activities relating to airtransportation; and

(c)bank guarantees or other security necessary to coverfinancial commitments to clients.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) ofsubsection (3), an operator of an aircraft applying for a licenceunder subsection (1), shall not be required to furnish a bankguarantee or other security, as required under that paragraph.

Allocation ofslots.

Air TransportService Licence.

62Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

98.(1) Every person to whom a licence or a permit isissued under section 93 or 97, as the case may be, shallmaintain such records as may be determined by the Authority,and furnish to the Authority such returns or information asmay from time to time be required to be furnished by theAuthority.

(2) The Authority may revoke a licnece or a permit issuedunder sections 93 or 97, as the case may be, where theAuthority is satisfied that the holder of such licence orpermit:

(a)has ceased to carry on the business in respect ofwhich the lincence or permit has been issued;

(b)has obtained the licence or permit contrary to theprovisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder;

(c)where the licence holder or the permit holder is acompany, that any or all of its principal officershave been convicted of an offence connected withthe business of the company involving moralturpitude;

(d)has ceased to comply with the requirementsspecified for the issue of such licence or permit; or

(e)has contravened any provisions of this Chapter ofthis Act or any regulations or rules made under thisAct.

(3) No revocation of a licence or permit under subsection(2) shall be made against a person, except after due noticehas been issued to show cause within such period as may bespecified in the notice, why the licence or the permit, as thecase may be, should not be revoked.

(4) The Authority or any officer authorized by theAuthority in writing, may

(a)for the purpose of ascertaining whether anyprovisions of this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder are being complied with, enter

Person issuedwith a permit ora licence undersection 93or97to maintaincertain recordsand furnishinformation.

63Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

and inspect at all reasonable hours of day or night,the premises in which the business in respect ofwhich the licence or the permit, as the case may be,was issued by the Authority ; and

(b)inspect and take copies of any records or returnsrequired by this Act or any regulations or rules madethereunder, to be kept in respect of such businessand of any other records relating to such business.

(5) Where the Authority has reasonable grounds tobelieve that any provisions of this Chapter of this Act or anyregulations or rules made thereunder are being violated orcontravened by any person to whom a licence or a permithas been issued under section 93 or 97, as the case may be,the Authority may after obtaining a warrant under the handof a Magistrate, enter and inspect any premises specified insuch warrant and take into custody any tickets, stocks orother documents used in connection with the commissionof such offence.

99.(1) Where the Director General is of the opinionthat it is necessary to safeguard the general health and wellbeing of persons, property and environment, includinganimals and birds, he shall have the power to issue to anAirline, special or general directions on matters pertainingto health and hygine or on any other matter which is ofnational concern, interest or importance.

(2) Non-compliance with any directions issued undersubsection (1), shall be an offence under this Act.

CHAPTER X

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

100.Any person who fails to comply with a writtenrequest made by the Authority or the Director General underthe provisions of this Act or of any regulations or rules madethreunder or furnishes any false information or return, shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction

DirectorGeneralspower to issuedirections toAirlines

Failure tocomply withwritten requestor furnishingfalseinformation.

64Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

be liable to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in Sri LankaRupees of ten thousand SDR or to imprisonment notexceeding two years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

101.(1) Where the owner or the operator of an aircraftin respect of which any charge or penalty is payable underthis Act, refuses or neglects to pay the same or any partthereof on demand, the Authority may without prejudice toany other remedy that may be available under any other law,seize such aircraft and detain the same until the amount dueis paid in full.

(2) The cost as determined by the Authority for seizing ordetaining an aircraft under subsection (1) shall, be paid bythe owner or the operator of the aircraft and if not paid withinfourteen days, the Authority may cause such aircraft to besold to recover the total amount due. Any surplus remainingshall be paid on demand to the owner, the operator or thePilot-in-Command, as the case may be, of the aircraft andwhere no demand for such payment is made for a period oftwo years, the amount remaining as surplus shall be creditedto the Fund of the Authority.

102.(1) Every person who is engaged in the provisionof aeronautical services or operating an aircraft shall berequired to conform to the safety and security requirementscurrently applicable in relation to the provision of suchaeronautical service or the operation of an aircraft, whichshall be prescribed.

(2) Every person who is required to conform to the safetyand security requirements prescribed under subsection (1)and fails to so conform, shall be liable to the payment of apenalty as prescribed, provided such penalty does not exceeda sum equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR.

(3) The Director General shall be responsible for thecollection of all penalties imposed under this section andthe monies so collected shall be credited to the Fund.

Seizure of anaircraft.

Violating safetyor securityrequirements.

65Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(4) The Director General shall at the time of imposing thepenalty referred to in subsection (2), require in writing theperson being penalized to take all measures necessary orappropriate in order to secure due compliance with the safetyand security measures that were being violated by suchperson, within such period of time as shall be specified.

(5) Where a person who is required to take measures tosecure due compliance with any safety and security measureswithin the period specified under subsection (4), fails orneglects to take such measures,the Authority or the DirectorGeneral, as the case may be, shall suspend or revoke anylicence issued to such person.

103.Any person who:

(a)contravenes or fails to comply with any provisionof this Act or any regulation or rule madethereunder;

(b)fails to comply with any implementing standard,direction, directive, procedure or instruction issuedunder any provisions of this Act or any regulationsor rules made thereunder; or

(c)obstructs or impedes any person in the exercise ofhis powers or duties under this Act or under anyregulation, order, rule, standard or procedure,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and on convictionbe liable to a fine not exceeding the equivalent in Sri LankaRupees of twenty-five thousand SDR or to imprisonment fora term not exceeding two years or to both such fine andimprisonment.

104.Any person who is guilty of an offence under thisAct for which no penalty is expressly provided for by thisAct, shall on conviction be liable to a fine not exceeding theequivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of ten thousand SDR or toimprisonment of either description for a term not exceedingtwo years or to both such fine and imprisonment.

Offences.

Penalties.

66Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

105.Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everyperson who at the time of the commission of theoffence was a Director, General Manager, Secretaryor other similar officer of that body ; or

(b)if that body is not a body corporate, every personwho at the time of the commission of the offencewas the President, Manager, Secretary or othersimilar officer of that body,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence, unless he provesthat such offence was committed without his knowledge orthat he exercised all due diligence to prevent the commissionof such offence.

106.(1) Every document purporting to be an order orother instrument made or issued by the Minister, theAuthority or the Director General, as the case may be, underthis Act or under any regulation or rule made thereunder orany implementing standards and signed by or on their behalf,shall be received in evidence and shall, until the contraryis proved, be deemed to be an order or instrument issued bythe Minister, Authority or the Director General, as the casemay be.

(2) Evidence of any order or instrument as referred to insubsection (1) may in any legal proceedings, be given bythe production of a document certified to be a true copy ofthe order or instrument, by or on behalf of the Minister,Authority or the Director General, as the case may be.

107.(1) All offences under this Act shall be cognizableoffences for the purpose of the application of the provisionsof the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

(2) No Court shall take cognizance of any offence underthis Act or any regulation or rule made thereunder, exceptwith the sanction of the Attorney- General.

Offencecommitted by abody of persons.

Proof ofdocuments.

Offences to becognizableoffences andcourt in whichaction foroffences may befiled.

67Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(3) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 or any other writtenlaw, an action in respect of any offence committed underthis Act shall, on the determination of the Attorney-General,be filed in the Magistrates Court of Colombo or upon anindictment in the High Court of Sri Lanka holden in theJudicial Zone of Colombo, as the case may be, and onconviction the Court shall impose the punishment as set outin this Act, for the commission of that offence.

108.(1) No action shall lie against an owner of anaircraft for trespass or nuisance, by reason only of the flightor any ordinary effects of the flight of such aircraft over anyproperty at a height above the ground, which, having regardto wind, weather and all the circumstances of the case isreasonable, so long as the provisions of this Act and anyregulations, rules or implementing standards, directions,directives, instructions or procedures made, thereunder orissued have been duly complied with.

(2) Where any material damage or loss is caused by anaircraft in flight, taking off or landing or by any person inany such aircraft or by an article or a person falling off fromany such aircraft, to any person or property on land or water,compensation in respect of such damage or loss shall berecoverable from the owner of the aircraft without proof ofnegligence or intention or other cause of action, as thoughthe same had been caused by his willful act, neglect or default,except where the damage or loss was caused by orcontributed to, by the negligence of the person by whom thesame was suffered :

Provided that where the material damage or loss is causedas aforesaid in circumstances in which:

(a)some person other than the owner of the aircraftwould under any other law in force in Sri Lanka beliable to pay compensation in respect of suchdamage or loss ; and

Trespass,nuisance, andresponsibilityfor damage.

68Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)such compensation is recoverable and is recoveredfrom the owner of the aircraft by virtue only of theprovisions of this section,

the owner shall be entitled to be indemnified by that otherperson in respect of the compensation so recovered from theowner.

(3) Where any aircraft has been let or hired out for a periodexceeding fourteen days to any other person by the ownerthereof and no Pilot-in -Command, navigator or operatingmember of the crew of the aircraft is in the employment of theowner, this section shall be read and construed as thoughthe reference to the owner were a reference to the personto whom the aircraft has been let or hired out.

CHAPTER XI

GENERAL

109.(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrarycontained in any provision of this Act, regulations or rulesmade thereunder or in the terms and conditions contained inany licence, certificate, permit, authorization or approvalgranted or issued under this Act, the Director General, in hiscapacity as the designated Government Agent in Sri Lankaresponsible for national civil aviation security, shall havethe power to cancel with immediate effect any such licence,certificate, permit, authorization or approval granted orissued, whether the same has been granted or issued byhimself or the Authority, as the case may be, where he hassufficient reason to believe that the holder of such licence,certificate, permit, authorization or approval, as the casemay be, poses a threat to the national security or to thenational defence of Sri Lanka or where he was sufficientreason to suspect that the holder of such licence, certificate,permit, authorization or approval is likely to pose a threat tothe national security or to the national defence of Sri Lanka.

(2) The provisions of subsection (3) of section 26 and ofsection 112 of this Act, shall not apply in respect of any

DirectorGenerals powerto cancellicences etc, incertaincircumstances.

69Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

cancellation of a licence, certificate, permit, authorizationor approval done under subsection (1).

110.Where a licence, certificate, permit, authorizationor approval granted or issued under this Act has been grantedor issued to a body corporate or a partnership and any changetakes place in the directorate of such body corporate or inthe partnership, should be communicated to the appropriateauthority who issued such licence, certificate, permit,authorization or approval, as the case may be, not more thantwo weeks after such change takes place.

111.(1) There shall be charged annually from everyperson who is authorized to provide any aeronautical serviceor who is engaged in domestic or international commercialair transportation, on a licence issued under this Act, a servicecharge at such rates to be determined by the Minister byOrder published in the Gazette. The service charge imposedunder this subsection shall be in addition, and not inderogation to the licence fee payable for any licences issued:

Provided however the Minister may exempt any publiccorporation or a company in which the Government hold amajority of shares, which is authorized to provide anyaeronautical service or who is engaged in domestic orinernational commercial air transportation, from the paymentof the service charge imposed under this subsection.

(2) The service charge imposed under subsection (1) shallbe paid to the Director General, who shall maintain properrecords of all such payments received by him and shall creditall monies collected to the Fund.

(3) Every person who fails to pay the service chargerequired to be paid by such person under this section shallbe guilty of an offence under this Act and on conviction beliable, in addition to any other punishment that shall beimposed by court, to a suspension or cancellation, as thecase may be, of any licence or licences issued to that personunder this Act, notwithstanding anything to the contrarycontained in any other provisions of this Act.

Changes takingplace in a bodycorporate orpartnership towhich anyauthority isgranted.

Service chargeto be imposed.

70Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

112.(1) A person who is aggrieved by any order ordecision made by the Director General or the Authority, asthe case may be, under this Act or any regulations or rulesmade thereunder, may prefer an appeal in writing to theSecretary to the Ministry of the Minister before the expiry ofthirty working days after the date on which such order ordecision is communicated to that person and the Secretaryshall in dealing with any appeal preferred to him under thissubsection, obtain the observations of the Director Generalor the Authority, as the case may be, and after due inquiry,affirm, vary or annul the order or decision against which theappeal has been preferred.

(2) The decision of the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister upon an appeal preferred under subsection (1), shallbe final and conclusive and shall not be appealed against inany court or tribunal.

113.Any person authorized by the Director Generalshall at all reasonable times, have access to any place towhich access is necessary for purpose of exercising anddischarging any powers and functions vested in him underthe provisions of this Act or any regulations or rules madethereunder and have the authority to examine any documentsfound in such place.

114.An order or decision made by the Director Generalor the Authority as the case may be, under this Act or anyregulations or rules made thereunder. shall come into forceon the date on which such order or decision is communicatedto the person concerned and shall, notwithstanding that anappeal against such order or decision has been preferred tothe Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister under section112, continue to be in force until a decision is made on theappeal by the Secretary.

115.(1) A licence, certificate, permit, authorization orapproval granted or issued under this Act to any person,shall not be:

(a)transferable to any other person ; or

Coming intoforce of anyorder ordecision of theDirector Generalor the Authority.

Prohibitionagainst transferof licence & c.

Appealprocedure.

Access toauthorizedpersons.

71Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)used for the benefit of any other person.

(2) Any transfer or use of a licence, certificate, permit,authorization or approval done in contravention of theprovision of subsection (1), shall be null and void.

116.(1) The Authority shall establish a State SafetyProgram with a view to integrating diverse andmulti-disciplinary aviation activities conducted in terms ofthis Act or any rules or regulations made thereunder into acoherent program, setting out safety indicators, safety targetsto be maintained to achieve an acceptable level of safety, asmay be determined by the Authority.

(2) The Authority shall establish and maintain a SafetyData Collection and Processing System, for the purpose ofprotecting all such information that is received by theAuthority or the Director General, as the case may be, in thecourse of the exercise and discharge of its or his powers andfunction, under this Act and the Civil Aviation Authority ofSri Lanka Act, as the case may be.

117.(1) The Minister may, taking into considerationthe interest of the national economy and the national securityof the State, make regulations in respect of all or any matterrequired by this Act to be prescribed and in respect of whichregulations are authorized by this Act to be made.

(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the powersconferred by subsection (1) and subject to the provisions ofsubsections (3) and (4) of this section, regulations may bemade by the Minister for or in respect in all or any of thefollowing matters :

(a)carrying out the provisions of the Convention, anyAnnex thereto relating to international standardsand recommended practices (being an Annexadopted in accordance with the Convention andany amendment to the Convention) ;

Establishment ofa State SafetyProgram and aSafety DataCollection andProcessingSystem.

Regulations.

72Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(b)issue of Certificates of Airworthiness and the termsand conditions subject to which such Certificatesmay be issued ;

(c)licencing, inspection, regulation and control ofAerodromes and the classification of Aerodromesfor the purpose of issue of licences ;

(d)access to Aerodromes and places where aircraft landand to aircraft factories, for the purpose ofinspection and the prohibition of trespassing onaerodromes ;

(e)employment of persons in or in connection withair navigation and the licensing of those employedat licensed Aerodromes in the inspection orsupervision of aircraft ;

(f)conditions under which aircraft entering or leavingSri Lanka may fly and the conditions under whichan aircraft may fly from one part of Sri Lanka toanother part of Sri Lanka ;

(g)conditions under which passengers and goods maybe carried by air and aircraft may be used for othercommercial, industrial or gainful purposes andspecifying goods that are prohibited from beingcarried by air ;

(h)prevention of interference with the use oreffectiveness of apparatus used in connection withair navigation, the prohibition or regulation of theuse of such apparatus and the display of signs andlights liable to endanger aircraft ;

(i)safety, efficiency and regularity of air navigation,safety of aircraft and of persons and property carriedtherein, the prevention of aircraft from endangeringother persons and property and the detention ofaircraft for any of the purposes specified in thisparagraph ;

73Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(j)safety oversight of civil aviation and mattersconnected therewith ;

(k)payment of compensation to any officer or servantof the Authority where death or injury is caused asa direct result of an aircraft accident or incident orinspection conducted by such officer or servant inthe performance of his or her duties ;

(l)supply of meteorological information for thepurpose of air navigation by persons engaged in oremployed in or in connection with, such airnavigation;

(m)regulation of the making of signals and othercommunications by or to aircraft and persons carriedtherein ;

(n)regulation of the use of the civil air ensign and anyother ensign established by the Minister for purposesconnected with air navigation ;

(o)prevention of smuggling by air ;

(p)manner and conditions relating to the issue,validation, renewal, extension or variation of anycertificate, licence, permit or other documentrequired to be issued under this Act or under anyregulation or rule made thereunder and the form,custody, production, cancellation, suspension,endorsement and surrender of any such document ;

(q)regulation of the charges that may be made for theuse of Aerodromes and for services provided at suchAerodromes ;

(r)regulation of the charges that may be made fromoverflying aircraft for the use of air navigationservices or facilities provided by State or anyAerodrome in Sri Lanka ;

74Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(s)prescribing the fees to be paid in respect of theissue, validation, renewal, extension, or variationof any certificate, licence, permit or other documentor the undergoing of any examination or testrequired by this Act or any regulations or rules madethereunder ;

(t)the regulation and control of the conditions underwhich noise and vibration may be caused by aircrafton Aerodromes ; and

(u)classification of commercial air transportation.

(3) Without prejudice to the generality of the powershereinbefore conferred, any regulations made under this Actmay provide for:

(a)different provisions with reference to differentclasses of aircraft, Aerodromes, persons or propertyand with respect to different circumstances anddifferent areas of Sri Lanka but shall, to the extentthat it is practicable, be made so as not todiscriminate in like circumstances between aircraftregistered in Sri Lanka operated on charter termsby one air transport undertaking and such aircraftso operated by another such undertaking ;

(b)the application of such regulations in respect of allaircrafts registered in Sri Lanka, wherever they maybe ;

(c)the prohibition or regulation of carrying on certainactivities by any persons in or members of the crew,of an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka wherever theymay be ; and

(d)the prohibition or regulation of doing anything inrelation to an aircraft registered in Sri Lanka by anyperson other than any personnel authorized underthe provisions of this Act.

75Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(4) Any regulations made under this Act in relation toaircraft, may also provide for the detention of an aircraft tosecure compliance with such regulation or with anyprovisions of this Act and may make such further provisionas appears to the Minister to be necessary or expedient forsecuring such detention.

118.The Minister in charge of the subject of Financemay in consultation with the Minister, make regulations forand in respect of all or any of the following matters :

(a)the sale of passenger tickets for travel by aircraftand the booking of passage for travel by aircraft ;

(b)the collection of freight charges on exports byaircraft ;

(c)the collection of freight charges on imports byaircraft, where contract for such carriage of freightis made in Sri Lanka ;

(d)the furnishing of statements or declarations byholders of licences issued under section 99 thatmay become necessary to ensure that the regulationsmade under section 117 are complied with,including such details as to:

(i)the traffic documents issued during anymonth, whether or not any cash collectionswere involved in such issue ;

(ii)the total cash collection effected in anymonth from sale of passenger tickets and fromfreight charges ; and

(iii)refunds granted against air transportationdocuments issued in Sri Lanka.

Regulations tobe made by theMinister ofFinance.

76Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

119.(1) Every regulation made by the Minister and theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance, under sections117 and 118 of this Act shall be published in the Gazetteand shall come into operation on the date of suchpublication, or on such later date as may be specified in theregulation.

(2) Every regulation published under subsection (1) shall,as soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, bebrought before Parliament for approval. Any such regulationwhich is not so approved shall deemed to be rescinded asfrom the date of its disapproval, but without prejudice toanything previously done thereunder.

(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation madeby the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall bepublished in the Gazette.

120.(1) The Director-General shall have the power toissue whenever he considers it necessary or appropriate todo so, such implementing standards for the purpose of givingeffect to any of the provisions of this Act, including theArticles of the Convention specified in the Schedule to thisAct or any regulations or rules made thereunder.

(2) It shall be the duty of all persons in respect of whomany implementing standards are issued under subsection (1),to comply with the same.

121.The Director General shall have the power to issueto all operators and licence holders providing aeronauticalservices, such general or special directions in regard to anymatter connected with or relating to the maintenance ofpublic safety and welfare of the citizens of Sri Lanka and itshall be the duty of all such operators and licence holders, asthe case may be, to comply with such directions.

Director Generalto issue generalor specialdirections.

Gazetting ofregulationsmade undersections 117 and118.

Power to issueimplementingstandards.

77Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

122.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of allor any of the matters in respect of which rules are authorizedor required by this Act to be made.

(2) No rule made by the Authority under subsection (1)shall have effect until it has been approved by the Minister,and notification of such approval is published in the Gazette.

123.The equivalent in Sri Lanka Rupees of SDR forpurpose of imposing a fine for an offence committed underthis Act, shall be made on the basis of the value of the rupeedetermined in terms of SDR, for the date preceding the dateof the commission of the the offence in respect of whichsuch fine is being imposed.

124.(1) In this Act, unless the context otherwiserequired

aerial work means aircraft operations in which anaircraft is used for purposes of agriculture,construction, photography, surveying, observationand patrol, search and rescue operations, aerialadvertisement, broadcasting or communication,production of air turbulence, flying training, flowerdropping and emergency operations ;

Aerodrome means any defined land or water areaintended to be used, whether wholly or partly, forthe landing and departure of aircraft and allbuildings, sheds, vessels, piers and other structuresstanding thereon or appertaining thereto ;

Air Navigation Act means the Air Navigation Act(Chapter 365) and includes the Air Navigation(Special Provisions) Act, No. 55 of 1992 ;

air navigation services means navigational aids andnavigational facilities;

Rules.

Equivalent ofSDR in rupees.

Interpretation.

78Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

air traffic control means a service provided for thepurpose of

(a)preventing collisions:

(i)between aircrafts ;

(ii)on the manoeuveing area between aircraftsand obstructions; and

(b) expediting and maintaining an orderly flow ofair traffic ;

aircraft means any machine that can derive supportin the atmosphere from the aerodynamic reactionsof the air, other than the reactions of the air againstthe earths surface ;

Authority means the Civil Aviation Authority of SriLanka, established by the Civil Aviation Authorityof Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002;

authorized security personnel means a member ofthe Security Services maintained by a ServiceProvider to whom a licence is issued by the DirectorGeneral for the provision and maintenance of anaviation security service and includes any memberof the Armed Forces or Police Force, who isperforming or is called upon to perform dutieswithin the airport ;

business of air transportation means the makingavailable (as the operator of an aircraft or as aprincipal or agent) of any accommodation for thecarriage of persons, cargo or mail, on flight byaircraft (whether registered in Sri Lanka or not) inany part of the world, including flights to and fromthe territory of Sri Lanka ;

Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act meansthe Civil Aviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No.34 of 2002 ;

79Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Convention means the Convention on InternationalCivil Aviation which was signed at Chicago on the7th day of December, 1944, as amended by anysubsequent Convention or Agreement and includesany Annex attached to such Convention ;

dangerous goods means any substances or articleswhich are capable of posing a risk to health, safety,property or the environment and which are shownin the list of dangerous goods specified in theTechnical Instructions issued by International CivilAviation Organization or which are classified asdangerous goods, according to such TechnicalInstructions ;

Director General means the Director General of CivilAviation appointed under section 11 of the CivilAviation Authority of Sri Lanka Act, No. 34 of 2002 ;

foreign aircraft means an aircraft which is notregistered in Sri Lanka under this Act ;

Fund means the Fund of the Authority establishedby section 12 of the Civil Aviation Authority ofSri Lanka Act ;

ground handling services means services necessaryfor an aircrafts arrival at and departing from anAerodrome, other than air traffic services ;

military aircraft means an aircraft used or operatedfor or on behalf of a State for purposes other thanthe carriage of passengers or cargo for hire or reward;

National Aviation Policy means the National Policyon Aviation formulated and adopted by the Cabinetof Ministers ;

navigational aids means visual and non-visual-navigational aids along an air route, visual and non-visual aids to approaching and landing atAerodromes and includes communication services,meteorological services and air traffic controlservices ;

80Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

navigational facilities means facilities provided topermit safe navigation of aircraft and includes visualand non-visual navigational aids ;

operator means a person, organization or anenterprise engaged in or offering to engage inaircraft operations and includes any person whocauses or authorizes the operation of an aircraft,whether with or without the control (in the capacityof a owner, lessee, or otherwise) of the aircraft ;

operator of the Aerodrome means, in relation to anypremises used or appropriated for use as anAerodrome, the person maintaining or operating oris authorized to maintain and operate an Aerodromein those premises or in the case of an Aerodromewhich is established or maintained by or on behalfof the Government, the Service Provider soappointed for that purpose ;

Regional Air Navigation Plan means a plan of routes,facilities and services agreed to by Governments atany Regional Air Navigation Conference andapproved by the Council of the International CivilAviation Organization ;

SARPSmeans Standards and RecommendedPractices adopted by the Council of theInternational Civil Aviation Organization underArticle 37 of the Convention ;

SDR means Special Drawing Rights defined by theInternational Monetary Fund ;

standards means:

(a)international standards adopted by the Councilof the International Civil Aviation Organization

81Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

under Article 37 of the Convention and to whichSri Lanka has not filed differences under Article38 of the Convention ; and

(b) the Recommended Practices adopted by theCouncil of the International Civil AviationOrganization under Article 37 of the Conventionand which have been duly implemented inSri Lanka;

State Party to the Convention means a State thathas ratified or has adhered to the Convention ;

territory of Sri Lanka means the land area, internalwaters and the territorial waters of Sri Lanka andincludes the air space above such areas.

(2) Any reference in this Act to goods or articles shallbe construed as including a reference to mail or to animalsand any reference in this Act to any country or territoryshall, unless the context otherwise requires, be construed asincluding a reference to the territorial waters, if any, adjacentto that country or territory.

(3) In this Act, the expression purposes of civil aviationincludes all purposes connected with air navigation, exceptany purpose connected to the defence of Sri Lanka by air.

125.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

126.(1) The provisions of:

(a) the Air Navigation Act, (Chapter 365), other thanthe provisions contained in Part III of that Act; and

(b)the Air Navigation (Special Provisions) Act, No. 55of 1992, other than Part II of that Act, are herebyrepealed.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Repeal andsavingsprovisions.

82Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the provisions referredto in subsection (1):

(a)all activities connected with the provision ofaeronautical services that are being carried on bythe Agent by virtue of the powers vested in suchAgent under the repealed provisions, shall becontinued to be carried on by such Agent until it isissued with such appropriate licences in its capacityas the Statutory Service Provider under subsection(1) of section 127 ;

(b)every regulation or Order made under any of therepealed provisions and in force on the appointeddate, in so far as such regulation or Order is notinconsistent with the provisions of this Act, shallbe deemed to be a regulation or Order made underthis Act and may be amended or rescinded by anyregulation or Order made under this Act ;

(c)every licence or Certificate issued or rendered validunder any repealed provisions or any regulationmade there under and in force on the appointeddate, shall be deemed to be a licence or Certificateissued under this Act and shall be valid and effectualuntil the expiry of the period for which such licenceor Certificate was issued or was rendered valid ;

(d)every approval granted and every designation,authorization or appointment made, directives,circulars, manuals, instructions and any otherpublications issued, boards or any other bodiesestablished, under any regulation made under anyof the repealed provisions, shall be deemed to begranted, made or issued under this Act and shall,unless otherwise cancelled or rendered invalid,continue to be in force ; and

(e) every decree, order or award entered or made infavour of or against Department of Civil Aviationby any Court or tribunal or other body in any action,

83Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

matter, proceeding or thing shall, with effect fromthe appointed date, be deemed to be a decree, orderor award entered or made in favour of or against theAuthority and may be enforced accordingly.

127.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of section 6 ofthis Act, the Agent appointed under section 21A of the AirNavigation Act (Chapter 365), shall, on and after theappointed date, be deemed to be a Service Provider (in thisAct referred to as the Statutory Service Provider) for thepurposes of this Act and shall be issued with all the relevantlicences required to be issued under this Act, to enable suchStatutory Service Provider to provide the aeronauticalservices such Agent was engaged in providing as on suchappointed date. The provisions of this Act pertaining to therequirements imposed on those to whom a licence is issuedunder this Act, shall apply to and in respect of all licencesissued to such Statutory Service Provider.

(2) The Minister shall cause an Order pertaining to theappointment of the Statutory Service Provider to bepublished in the Gazette.

(3) The issue of any licences to the Statutory ServiceProvider under subsection (1) of this section, shall not inany way affect or prejudice any duty cast on such StatutoryService Provider to fulfill any obligations that may havebeen imposed upon such Statutory Service Provider in itscapacity as the Agent appointed under section 21A of theAir Navigation Act (Chapter 365), prior to the appointeddate.

128.On the issue of the licences to the Statutory ServiceProvider under subsection (1) of section 127 of this Act, theAuthority shall grant permission in writing to the StatutoryService Provider to withhold any immovable properties thatwere in its possession in its capacity as Agent as on theappointed date, to enable such Statutory Service Providerto provide any aeronautical service or any other servicewhich is connected with or incidental to the provision ofsuch aeronautical service.

Withholding ofproperties by theStatutoryServiceProvider.

Provisionsrelating to theAgent appointedunder section21A of the AirNavigation Act,(Chapter 365).

84Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

SCHEDULE[Section 2]

ARTICLES OF THE CONVENTION RELATING TO SAFETY,REGULARITY, EFFICIENCY AND SECURITY OFCIVIL AVIATION

ARTICLE 1 - SOVEREIGNTY

The Contracting States recognize that every State has completeand exclusive sovereignty over the airspace above its territory.

ARTICLE 2 - TERRITORY

For the purposes of this Convention the territory of a State shall bedeemed to be the land areas and territorial waters adjacent theretounder the sovereignty, suzerainty, protection or mandate of suchState.

ARTICLE 3 - CIVIL AND STATE AIRCRAFTS

(a) This Convention shall be applicable only to civil aircraft,and shall not be applicable to state aircraft.

(b) Aircraft used in military, customs and police services shallbe deemed to be state aircraft;

(c) No state aircraft of a Contracting State shall fly over theterritory of another State or land thereon withoutauthorization by special agreement or otherwise, and inaccordance with the terms thereof.

(d) The Contracting State undertake, when issuing regulationsfor their state aircraft, that they will have due regard for thesafety of navigation of civil aircraft.

ARTICLE 3 bis

(a) The Contracting States recognize that every State must refrainfrom resorting to the use of weapons against civil aircraftin flight and that, in case of interception, the lives of personson board and the safety of aircraft must not be endangered.This provision shall not be interpreted as modifying in anyway the rights and obligations of States set forth in theCharter of the United Nations;

(b) The Contracting States recognize that every State, in theexercise of its sovereignty, is entitled to require the landingat some designated airport of a civil aircraft flying aboveits territory without authority or if there are reasonable

85Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

grounds to conclude that it is being used for any purposeinconsistent with the aims of this Convention; it may alsogive such aircraft any other instructions to put an end tosuch violations. For this purpose, the Contracting Statesmay resort to any appropriate means consistent with relevantrules of international law, including the relevant provisionsof this Convention, specifically paragraph (a) of this Article.Each Contracting State agrees to publish its regulations inforce regarding the interception of civil aircraft;

(c) Every civil aircraft shall comply with an order given inconformity with paragraph (b) of this Article. To this endeach Contracting State shall establish all necessary provisionsin its national laws or regulations to make such compliancemandatory for any civil aircraft registered in that State oroperated by an operator who has his principal place ofbusiness or permanent residence in that State. EachContracting State shall make any violation of such applicablelaws or regulations punishable by severe penalties and shallsubmit the case to its competent authorities in accordancewith its laws or regulations;

(d) Each Contracting State shall take appropriate measures toprohibit the deliberate use of any civil aircraft registered inthat State or operated by an operator who has his principalplace of business or permanent residence in that State forany purpose inconsistent with the aims of this Convention.This provision shall not affect paragraph (a) or derogatefrom paragraphs (b) and (c) of this Article.

ARTICLE 4 - MISUSE OF CIVIL AVIATION

Each Contracting State agrees not to use civil aviation for anypurpose inconsistent with the aims of this Convention.

ARTICLE 5 - RIGHT OF NON-SCHEDULED FLIGHT

Each Contracting State agrees that all aircraft of the otherContracting States, being aircraft not engaged in scheduled internationalair services, shall have the right, subject to the observance of theterms of this Convention, to make flights into or in transit non-stopacross its territory and to make stops for non-traffic purposes withoutthe necessity of obtaining prior permission, and subject to the right ofthe State flown over to require landing. Each Contracting Statenevertheless reserves the right, for reasons of safety of flight, torequire aircraft desiring to proceed over regions which are inaccessibleor without adequate air navigation facilities, to follow prescribed

86Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

routes or to obtain special permission for such flights. Such aircraft,if engaged in the carriage of passengers, cargo or mail for remunerationor hire on other than scheduled international air services, shall also,subject to the provisions of Article 7, have the privilege of taking onor discharging passengers, cargo or mail, subject to the right of anyState where such embarkation or discharge takes place, to imposesuch regulations, conditions or limitations as it may consider desirable.

ARTICLE 6 - SCHEDULED AIR SERVICES

No scheduled international air service may be operated over orinto the territory of a Contracting State, except with the specialpermission or other authorization of that State, and in accordancewith the terms of such permission or authorization.

ARTICLE 7 - CABOTAGE

Each Contracting State shall have the right to refuse permission toaircraft of any other Contracting States to take on in its territorypassengers, mail and cargo carried for remuneration or hire anddestined for another point within its territory. Each Contracting Stateundertakes not to enter into any arrangements, which specificallygrant any such privilege on an exclusive basis to any other State or anairline of any other State, and not to obtain any such exclusive privilegefrom any other State.

ARTICLE 8 - PILOTLESS AIRCRAFT

No aircraft capable of being flown without a pilot shall be flownwithout a pilot over the territory of a Contracting State without specialauthorization by that State and in accordance with the terms of suchauthorization. Each Contracting State undertakes to insure that theflight of such aircraft without a pilot in regions open to civil aircraft,shall be so controlled as to obviate danger to civil aircraft.

ARTICLE 9 - PROHIBITED AREAS

(a)Each contracting State may, for reasons of military necessityor public safety, restrict or prohibit uniformly the aircraftof other States from flying over certain areas of its territory,provided that no distinction in this respect is made betweenthe aircraft of the State whose territory is involved orengaged in scheduled international airline services, and theaircraft of the other Contracting States likewise engaged.Such prohibited areas shall be of reasonable extent andlocation so as not to interfere unnecessarily with airnavigation. Descriptions of such prohibited areas in theterritory of a Contracting State, as well as any subsequentalterations therein, shall be communicated as soon as

87Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

possible to the other Contracting States and to theInternational Civil Aviation Organization.

(b)Each Contracting State reserves also the right, in exceptionalcircumstances or during a period of emergency, or in theinterest of public safety, and with immediate effect,temporarily to restrict or prohibit flying over the whole orany part of its territory, on condition that such restrictionor prohibition shall be applicable without distinction ofnationality, to aircraft of all other States.

(c)Each Contracting State, under such regulations as it mayprescribe, may require any aircraft entering the areascontemplate in subparagraphs (a) or (b) above to effect alanding as soon as practicable thereafter, at some designatedairport within its territory.

ARTICLE 10 - LANDING AT CUSTOMS AIRPORT

Except in a case where, under the terms of this Convention or aspecial authorization, aircraft are permitted to cross the territory of aContracting State without landing, every aircraft which enters theterritory of a Contracting State shall, if the regulations of that State sorequire, land at an airport designated by that State for the purpose ofcustoms and other examination. On departure from the territory of aContracting State, such aircraft shall depart from a similarly designatedcustoms airport. Particulars of all designated customs airports shall bepublished by the State and transmitted to the International CivilAviation Organization established under Part II of this Convention,for communication to all other contracting States.

ARTICLE 11 - APPLICABILITY OF AIR REGULATIONS

Subject to the provisions of this Convention, the laws andregulations of a Contracting State relating to the admission to ordeparture from its territory aircraft engaged in international airnavigation or to the operation and navigation of such aircraft whilewithin its territory, shall be applied to the aircraft of all ContractingStates without distinction as to nationality, and shall be complied withby such aircraft upon entering or departing from or while within theterritory of that State.

ARTICLE 12 - RULES OF THE AIR

Each Contracting State undertakes to adopt measures to insurethat every aircraft flying over or maneuvering within its territory andthat every aircraft carrying its nationality mark, wherever such aircraftmay be, shall comply with the rules and regulations relating to theflight and maneuver of aircraft there in force. Each Contracting State

88Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

undertakes to keep its own regulations in these respects uniform tothe greatest possible extent, with those established from time to timeunder this Convention. Over the high seas, the rules in force shall bethose established under this Convention. Each Contracting Stateundertakes to insure the prosecution of all persons violating theregulations applicable.

ARTICLE 13 - ENTRY AND CLEARANCE REGULATIONS

The laws and regulations of a Contracting State as to the admissionto or departure from its territory of passengers, crew or cargo ofaircraft, such as regulations relating to entry, clearance, immigration,passports, customs and quarantine, shall be complied with by or onbehalf of such passengers, crew or cargo upon entrance into ordeparture from, or while within the territory of the State.

ARTICLE 14 - PREVENTION OF SPREAD OF DISEASE

Each Contracting State agrees to take effective measurers to preventthe spread by means of air navigation of cholera, typhus (epidemic),smallpox, yellow fever, plague, and such other communicable diseasesas the Contracting States shall from time to time decide to designate,and to that end Contracting States will keep in close consultation withthe agencies concerned with international regulations relating tosanitary measures applicable to aircraft. Such consultation shall bewithout prejudice to the application of any existing internationalconvention on the subject, to which the Contracting States may beparties.

ARTICLE 15 - AIRPORT AND SIMILAR CHARGES

Every airport in a Contracting State which is open to public use byits national aircraft shall likewise, subject to the provisions of Article68, be open under uniform conditions to the aircraft of all the otherContracting States. The like uniform conditions shall apply to the use,by aircraft of every Contracting State, of all air navigation facilities,including radio and meteorological services, which may be providedfor public use for the safety and expedition of air navigation. Anycharges that may be imposed or permitted to be imposed by aContracting State for the use of such airports and air navigationfacilities by the aircraft of any other Contracting State, shall not behigher:

(a) as to aircraft not engaged in scheduled international airservices, than those that would be paid by its national aircraftof the same class engaged in similar operation; and

(b) as to aircraft engaged in scheduled international air services,than those that would be paid by its national aircraft engagedin similar international air services.

89Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

All such charges shall be published and communicated to theInternational Civil Aviation Organization :

provided that, upon representation by an interested ContractingState, the charges imposed for the use of airports and other facilitiesshall be subject to review by the Council, which shall report andmake recommendations thereon for the consideration of the State orStates concerned. No fees, dues or other charges shall be imposed byany Contracting State in respect solely of the right of transit over orentry into or exit form its territory of any aircraft of a ContactingState or persons or property thereon.

ARTICLE 16 - SEARCH OF AIRCRAFT

The appropriate authorities of each of the Contracting States shallhave the right, without unreasonable delay, to search aircraft of theother contracting States on landing or departure and to inspect thecertificates and other documents prescribed by this Convention.

ARTICLE 17 - NATIONALITY OF AIRCRAFT

Aircraft have the nationality of the State in which they areregistered.

ARTICLE 18 - DUAL REGISTRATION

An aircraft cannot be validly registered in more than one State,but its registration may be changed from one State to another.

ARTICLE 19 - NATIONAL LAWS GOVERNING REGISTRATION

The registration or transfer of registration of aircraft in anyContracting State, shall be made in accordance with its laws andregulations.

ARTICLE 20 - DISPLAY OF MARKS

Every aircraft engaged in international air navigation shall bear itsappropriate nationality and registration marks.

ARTICLE 21 - REPORT OF REGISTRATIONS

Each Contracting State undertakes to supply to any other ContractingState or to the International Civil Aviation Organization, on demand,information concerning the registration and ownership of anyparticular aircraft registered in that State. In addition, each ContractingState shall furnish reports to the International Civil AviationOrganization, under such regulations as the latter may prescribe,giving such pertinent data as can be made available concerning theownership and control of aircraft registered in that State and habituallyengaged in international air navigation. The data thus obtained by theInternational Civil Aviation Organization shall be made available byit on request to the other Contracting States.

90Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ARTICLE 22 - FACILITATION OF FORMALITIES

Each Contracting State agrees to adopt all practicable measures,through the issuance of special regulations or otherwise, to facilitateand expedite navigation by aircraft between the territories ofContracting States and to prevent unnecessary delays to aircraft, crews,passengers and cargo, especially in the administration of the lawsrelating to immigration, quarantine, customs and clearance.

ARTICLE 23 - CUSTOMS AND IMMIGRATION PROCEDURES

Each Contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable,to establish customs and immigration procedures affecting internationalair navigation in accordance with the practices which may be establishedor recommended from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.Nothing in this Convention shall be construed as preventing theestablishment of customs-free airports.

ARTICLE 24 - CUSTOMS DUTY

Aircraft on a flight to, from, or across the territory of anotherContracting State shall be admitted temporarily free of duty, subjectto the customs regulations of the State. Fuel, lubricating oils, spareparts, regular equipment and aircraft stores on board an aircraft of aContracting State, on arrival in the territory of another ContractingState and retained on board on leaving the territory of that State shallbe exempt from customs duty, inspection fees or similar national orlocal duties and charges. This exemption shall not apply to anyquantities or articles unloaded, except in accordance with the customsregulations of the State, which may require that they shall be keptunder customs supervision.

Spare parts and equipment imported into the territory of aContracting State for incorporation in or use on an aircraft of anotherContracting State engaged in international air navigation shall beadmitted free of customs duty, subject to compliance with regulationsof the State concerned, which may provide that the articles shall bekept under customs supervision and control.

ARTICLE 25 - AIRCRAFT IN DISTRESS

Each Contracting State undertakes to provide such measures ofassistance to aircraft in distress in its territory as it may find practicable,and to permit, subject to control by its own authorities, the owners ofthe aircraft or authorities of the State in which the aircraft is registered,to provide such measures of assistance as may be necessitated by thecircumstances. Each Contracting State, when undertaking search formissing aircraft, will collaborate in coordinated measures which maybe recommended from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.

91Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ARTICLE 26 - INVESTIGATION OF ACCIDENTS

In the event of an accident to an aircraft of a Contracting Stateoccurring in the territory of another Contracting State and involvingdeath or serious injury or indicating serious technical defect in theaircraft or air navigation facilities, the State in which the accidentoccurs will institute an inquiry into the circumstances of the accident,in accordance, so far as its laws permit, with the procedure which maybe recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organization.The State in which the aircraft is registered shall be given theopportunity to appoint observers to be present at the inquiry and theState holding the inquiry shall communicate the report and findingsin the matter to that State.

ARTICLE 27 - EXEMPTION FROM SEIZURE ON PATENT CLAIMS

(a) While engaged in international air navigation, anyauthorized entry of aircraft of a Contracting State into theterritory of another Contracting State or authorized transitacross the territory of such State with or without landings,shall not entail any seizure or detention of the aircraft orany claim against the owner or operator thereof or anyother interference therewith by or on behalf of such Stateor any person therein, on the ground that the construction,mechanism, parts, accessories or operation of the aircraft isan infringement of any patent, design, or model duly grantedor registered in the State whose territory is entered by theaircraft, it being agreed that no deposit of security inconnection with the foregoing exemption from seizure ordetention of the aircraft, shall in any case be required in theState entered by such aircraft.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this Article shall also beapplicable to the storage of spare parts and spare equipmentfor the aircraft and the right to use and install the same inthe repair of an aircraft of a Contracting State in the territoryof any other Contracting State, provided that any patentedpart or equipment so stored shall not be sold or distributedinternally in or exported commercially from the ContractingState entered by the aircraft.

(c) The benefits of this Article shall apply only to such Statesparties to this Convention, as either:

(1) are parties to the International Convention for theProtection of Industrial Property and to anyamendments thereof; or

92Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(2) have enacted patent laws which recognize and giveadequate protection to inventions made by thenationals of the other States parties to thisConvention.

ARTICLE 28 - AIR NAVIGATION FACILITIES AND STANDARD SYSTEMS

Each Contracting State undertakes, so far as it may find practicable,to

(a) provide in its territory, airports, radio services,meteorological services and other air navigation facilitiesto facilitate international air navigation, in accordance withthe standards and practices recommended or establishedfrom time to time, pursuant to this Convention;

(b) adopt and put into operation the appropriate standardsystems of communications procedure, codes, markings,signals, lighting and other operational practices and ruleswhich may be recommended or established from time totime, pursuant to this Convention;

(c) collaborate in international measures to secure thepublication of aeronautical maps and charts in accordancewith standards, which may be recommended or establishedfrom time to time, pursuant to this Convention.

ARTICLE 29 - DOCUMENTS CARRIED IN AIRCRAFT

Every aircraft of a Contracting State, engaged in internationalnavigation, shall carry the following documents in conformity withthe conditions prescribed in this Convention :

(a) its certificate of registration ;

(b) its certificate of airworthiness;

(c) the appropriate licenses for each member of the crew;

(d) its journey log book;

(e) if it is equipped with radio apparatus, the aircraft radiostation license;

(f) if it carries passengers, a list of their names and places ofembarkation and destination;

(g) if it carries cargo, a manifest and detailed declarations ofthe cargo.

93Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ARTICLE 30 - AIRCRAFT RADIO EQUIPMENT

(a) Aircraft of each Contracting State may, in or over theterritory of other Contracting States, carry radio transmittingapparatus only if a license to install and operate suchapparatus has been issued by the appropriate authorities ofthe State in which the aircraft is registered. The use of radiotransmitting apparatus in the territory of the ContractingState whose territory is flown over, shall be in accordancewith the regulations prescribed by that State.

(b) Radio transmitting apparatus may be used only by membersof the flight crew who are provided with a special licensefor the purposes, issued by the appropriate authorities ofthe State in which the aircraft is registered.

ARTICLE 31 - CERTIFICATES OF AIRWORTHINESS

Every aircraft engaged in international navigation shall be providedwith a certificate of airworthiness issued or rendered valid by theState in which it is registered.

ARTICLE 32 - LICENSES OF PERSONNEL

(a) The pilot of every aircraft and the other members of theoperating crew of every aircraft engaged in internationalnavigation, shall be provided with certificates of competencyand licenses issued or rendered valid by the State in whichthe aircraft is registered.

(b) Each Contracting State reserves the right to refuse torecognize, for the purpose of flight above its own territory,certificates of competency and licenses granted to any ofits nationals by another Contracting State.

ARTICLE 33 - RECOGNITION OF CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES

Certificates of airworthiness and certificates of competency andlicenses issued or rendered valid by the Contracting State in which theaircraft is registered, shall be recognized as valid by the otherContracting States, provided that the requirements under suchcertificates or licenses were issued or rendered valid are equal to orabove the minimum standards which may be established from time totime, pursuant to this Convention

ARTICLE 34 - JOURNEY LOGBOOKS

There shall be maintained in respect every aircraft engaged ininternational navigation, a journey log book in which shall be enteredparticulars of the aircraft, its crew and of each journey, in such formas may be prescribed from time to time, pursuant to this Convention.

94Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ARTICLE 35 - CARGO RESTRICTIONS

(a) No munitions of war or implements of war may be carriedin or above the territory of a State in aircraft engaged ininternational navigation, except by permission of such State.Each State shall determine by regulations what constitutesmunitions of war or implements of war for the purposes ofthis Article, giving due consideration, for the purposes ofuniformity, to such recommendations as the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization may from time to time make.

(b) Each Contracting State reserves the right, for reasons ofpublic order and safety, to regulate or prohibit the carriagein or above its territory, of articles other than thoseenumerated in paragraph (a):

provided that no distinction is made in this respectbetween its national aircraft engaged in internationalnavigation and the aircraft of the other States so engaged :and provided further that no restriction shall be imposedwhich may interfere with the carriage and use on aircraft ofapparatus necessary for the operation or navigation of theaircraft or the safety of the personnel or passengers.

ARTICLE 36 - PHOTOGRAPHIC APPARATUS

Each Contracting State may prohibit or regulate the use ofphotographic apparatus in aircraft over its territory.

ARTICLE 37 - ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND PROCEDURES

Each Contracting State undertakes to collaborate in securing thehighest practicable degree of uniformity in regulations, standards,procedures, and organization in relation to aircraft, personnel, airwaysand auxiliary services in all matters in which such uniformity willfacilitate and improve air navigation. To this end the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization shall adopt and amend from time to time,as may be necessary, international standards and recommendedpractices and procedures, dealing with

(a) communications systems and air navigation aids, includingground marking;(b) characteristics of airports and landing areas;(c) rules of the air and air traffic control practices;(d) licensing of operating and mechanical personnel;(e) airworthiness of aircraft;(f) registration and identification of aircraft;(g) collection and exchange of meteorological information;(h) log books;

95Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

(i) aeronautical maps and charts;(j) customs and immigration procedure;(k) aircraft in distress and investigation of accidents,

and such other matters concerned with the safety, regularity, andefficiency of air navigation, as may from time to time appearappropriate.

ARTICLE 38 - DEPARTURES FROM INTERNATIONALSTANDARDS AND PROCEDURES

Any state which finds it impracticable to comply in all respectswith any such international standards or procedure, or to bring itsown regulations or practices into full accord with any internationalstandard or procedure after amendment of the latter, or which deemsit necessary to adopt regulations or practices differing in any particularrespect from those established by an international standard, shall giveimmediate notification to the International Civil Aviation Organizationof the differences between its own practice and that established by theinternational standard. In the case of amendments to internationalstandards, any State which does not make the appropriate amendmentsto its own regulations or practices, shall give notice to the Councilwithin sixty day of the adoption of the amendment to the internationalstandard, or indicate the action which it proposes to take. In any suchcase the Council shall make immediate notification to all States, of thedifference which exists between one or more features of aninternational standard and the corresponding national practice of thatState.

ARTICLE 39 - ENDORSEMENT OF CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES

(a) Any aircraft or part thereof with respect to which thereexists an international standard of airworthiness orperformance, and which failed in any respect to satisfy thatstandard at the time of its certification, shall have endorsedon or attached to its airworthiness certificate, a completeenumeration of the details in respect of which it so failed.

(b) Any person holding a license who does not satisfy in fullthe conditions laid down in the international standardrelating to the class of license or certificate which he holds,shall have endorsed on or attached to his license a completeenumeration of the particulars in which he does not satisfysuch conditions.

ARTICLE 40 - VALIDITY OF ENDORSED CERTIFICATES AND LICENSES

No aircraft or personnel having certificates or licenses so endorsedshall participate in international navigation, except with the permission

96Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

of the State or States whose territory is entered. The registration or useof any such aircraft, or of any certificated aircraft part, in any Stateother than that in which it was originally certificated, shall be at thediscretion of the State into which the aircraft or part is imported.

ARTICLE 41 - RECOGNITION OF EXISTING STANDARDS OF AIRWORTHINESS

The provisions of Articles 37, 38, 39 and 40 shall not apply toaircraft and aircraft equipment of types of which the prototype issubmitted to the appropriate national authorities for certification,prior to a date three years after the date of adoption of an internationalstandard of airworthiness for such equipment.

ARTICLE 42 - RECOGNITION OF EXISTING STANDARDS OF COMPETENCY OFPERSONNEL

The provisions of Articles 37,38, 39 and 40 shall not apply topersonnel whose licenses are originally issued prior to a date one yearafter initial adoption of an international standard of qualification forsuch personnel; but they shall in any case apply to all personnelwhose licenses remain valid five years after the date of adoption ofsuch standard.

ARTICLE 67 - FILE REPORTS WITH COUNCIL

Each Contracting State undertakes that its international airlinesshall, in accordance with requirements laid down by the Council, filewith the Council traffic reports, cost statistics and financial statementsshowing among other things, all receipts and the sources thereof.

ARTICLE 68 - DESIGNATION OF ROUTES AND AIRPORTS

Each Contracting State may, subject to the provisions of thisConvention, designate the route to be followed within its territory byany international air service and the airport, which any such servicemay use.

ARTICLE 72 - ACQUISITION OR USE OF LAND

Where land is needed for facilities financed in whole or in part bythe Council at the request of a Contracting State, that State shall eitherprovide the land itself, retaining title if it wishes, or facilitate the useof the land by the Council on just and reasonable terms and inaccordance with the laws of the State concerned.

ARTICLE 81 - REGISTRATION OF EXISTING AGREEMENTS

All aeronautical agreements which are in existence on the cominginto force of this Convention, and which are between a ContractingState and any other State or between an airline of a Contracting Stateand any other State or the airline of any other State, shall be forthwithregistered with the Council.

97Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

ARTICLE 83 - REGISTRATION OF NEW ARRANGEMENTS

Subject to the provisions of the preceding Article, any ContractingState may make arrangements not inconsistent with the provisions ofthis Convention. Any such arrangement shall be forthwith registeredwith the Council, which shall make it public as soon as possible.

ARTICLE 83 bis

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of Articles 12, 30, 31 and32(a), when an aircraft registered in a Contracting State isoperated pursuant to an agreement for the lease, charter orinterchange of the aircraft or any similar arrangement byan operator who has his principal place of business or, if hehas no such place of business, his permanent residence inanother Contracting State, the State of registry may, byagreement with such other State, transfer to it all or part ofits functions and duties as State of registry in respect of thataircraft under Articles 12, 30, 31 and 32(a). The State ofregistry shall be relieved of responsibility in respect of thefunctions and duties transferred;

(b) The transfer shall not have effect in respect of otherContracting States, before either the agreement betweenStates in which it is embodied has been registered with theCouncil and made public pursuant to Article 83 or theexistence and scope of the agreement have been directlycommunicated to the authorities of the other ContractingState or States concerned, by a State party to the agreement.

ARTICLE 89 - WAR AND EMERGENCY CONDITIONS

In case of war, the provisions of this Convention shall not affectthe freedom of action of any of the Contracting States affected, whetheras belligerents or as neutrals. The same principle shall apply in thecase of any Contracting State, which declares a state of nationalemergency and notifies the fact to the Council.

98Civil Aviation Act, No. 14 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.