PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT)
ACT; No. 52 OF 1998

[Certified on 24th November, 1998]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 27, 1998

[PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

“TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO!
Price : Rs, 23.75 : ~ Postage : Rs. 7.00


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

[Certified on 24th November, 1998]
L.D.—0.13/98.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE
Acr, No. 28 oF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue
(Amendment) Act, No. 52 of 1998.

2. Section 8 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) as
amended by Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby further amended
as follow :—

(1) in paragraph (a) of that section—

(@) by the substitution in subparagraph (XXIVA) of
that paragraph for the words and figures “year of,
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1989,
as consist of”, of the words and figures “year of,
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1989
but prior to April 1, 1997 and for the period
commencing, on April 1, 1997 and ending on
December 31, 1997, as consists of " ;

(®) in subparagraph (LXXII) of that paragraph by
the substitution for the words and figures “the
Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri
Lanka, Act, No. 36 of 1987”, of the words and
figures “the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka, Act, No. 36 of 1987” ;

(©) by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph
(LXXIIN of that paragraph, of the following sub-
Paragraphs =

“(Lxxiv) the Bandaranaike Museum Committee
incorporated under the Bandaranaike
Museum Committee (Incorporation)
Act, No. 28 of 199°

2—D 049856_9,575 ( 09/98)

Short ttl.

‘Amendment of
section 8 of Act,
No, 28 of 1979.


2 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(Lxxv) the Geological Survey and Mines
Bureau established under the Mines and
Minerals Act, No. 33 of 1992 ;

(2) in paragraph (¢) of that section, by the substitution
for the words, “(ii) approved by the Minister”, of the
words, “(ii) approved by the Minister ;” ; and

(3) by the addition at the end of that section of the
following paragraph :—

“(the profits and income—

(for any year of assessment, of any unit trust
or mutual fund incorporated on or after
December 01, 1996, if not less than seventy
per centum of such profits and income are
distributed to its unit holders before the
expiry of one year from the end of that year
of assessment ;

ii) for any year of assessment commencing on
or after the day immediately succeeding the
last day of the year of assessment at the end
of which the period of seven years referred
toin section 22 poop expires, of any unit trust
or mutual fund referred to in that section, if
not less than seventy per centum of such
profits and income are distributed to its unit
holders before the expiry of one year from
the end of the first mentioned year of
assessment.”.

‘Amendment of 3. Section 9 of the principal enactment as amended by
section 9 ofthe Act, No. 24 of 1997 is hereby amended in subsection (1) of

prin :
Laat that section as follows :—

(1) in sub-paragraph (viii) of paragraph (f) of that
subsection, by the substitution for the words “Overseas
Economic Co-operation Fund of Japan ;”, of the words
“Overseas Economic Co-operation Fund of Japan or
the Commonwealth Secretariat in any of its programmes
for technical Co-operation with Sri Lanka ;” ;


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 3

(2) in paragraph (0) of that subsection, by the substitution
for the words “as the case may be ; and”, of the words

(3) in paragraph (p) of that subsection, by the substitution
for the words and figures “prior to April 1, 1997 in
such public corporation”, of the words and figures
“prior tq April 1, 1997 in such public corporation ;
and”; and

(4) by the addition, immediately after paragraph (p) of
that subsection, of the following paragraph :—

(@) any sum paid to any employee by the employer
of such employee, being a sum paid as
compensation for loss of any office or
employment consequent to—

(i) the voluntary retirement by such employee
on or after November, 6, 1997, in
accordance with a scheme, which in the
opinion of the Commissioner-General is
uniformally applicable to all employees
employed by such employer ;

Gi) the retrenchment of such employee on or
after November 6, 1977 by such employer
in accordance with a scheme approved by
the Commissioner of Labour.

4. ‘Section 10 of the principal enactment 2 amended Amendment of
by Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby fursher amencea as ae
follows :-— ee eas

(1) by the substitution in paragraph (g) of that section,

for the words “any foreign currency banking uni
of the words “any foreign currency banking unit ;
and” ;



4 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(2) by the addition, immediately after paragraph () of
that section, of the following paragraph :—

“(h) interest accruing to any financial institution from
any loan granted by it to any venture capital
company established for the implementation of
any entrepreneur development programme of
the Government, if the proceeds of such loan
are utilized by such company for the
implementation of such programme.

For the purpose of this paragraph “financial

~ institution” means any company whose business

or part of whose business consists of the

acceptance of money by way of deposits or loan

in the form of debenture ax bond or in any other
form, and the payment of interest thereon.”.

‘Amendment of 5. Section 11 of the principal enactment as amended
section.11 ofthe by Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby further amended as
Principal follows

‘enactment.

(1) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (aaa)
of that section, of the following new paragraphs :—

‘(qaaa) any dividend out of the profits of any
company with which an agreement has been
entered into by the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka under section 17 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978
from the operation by such company of a
hospital with facilities for paying and non-
paying patients for indoor and outdoor
treatment, paid during the period of five
years reckoned from the commencement of
the year of assessment in which such
hospital commences operations ;

(aaaaa) any dividend out of the profits within the
meaning of section 3(a) of a company


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 5

(@ with which an agreement has been
entered into by the Board of Investment
of Sri Lanka, under section 17 of the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law,
No. 4 of 1978, and

Gi) to which a mining license issued under
the Mines and Mineral Act, No. 33 of
1992, has been assigned

paid to any shareholder of such company,
during the period for which the profits and
income of that company are chargeable with
income tax at such rate as is determined in
accordance with subparagraph (a) of the
further proviso to paragraph (iv) of
regulation 2 of Regulations No 1 of 1995
made under section 24 of the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978,
as last amended by Regulation published in
Gazette No. 1019/13 of March 19, 1998 and
specified in such agreement or within one
year thereafter.

(2) in paragraph (b) of that section, by the substitution
for the figures and letters “I7Kk, 18”, of the figures
and letters “17kx, 171, 17m, 18".

6. Section 14 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby further amended in paragraph
() of subsection (1) of that section by the insertion,
immediately after sub-paragraph (xxi), of that paragraph of
the following sub-paragraphs :—

“(Xxii)_the sale, on or after November 6, 1997, but on or
before April 1, 1999 by any person, of any share
held by him in any company, being a company
the shares of which are quoted on or before March
31st 1999 in any official list published by any
Stock Exchange licensed by the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ;

‘Amendment of
section 14 of the
principal
‘enactment.


‘Amended of
section 15 of the
principal
‘enactment.

6 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(xxiii) the sale, on or after November 6, 1997, by any
person, of any bond, debenture or other debt,
instrument issued by any company and held by
such person, being a bond, debenture or other debt
instrument which, at the time of such sale is
quoted in any official list published by any Stock
Exchange licensed by the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ;”.

7. Section 15 of the principal enactment as amended by
Act, No. 16 of 1996 is hereby further amended as follows :—

(1) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (mm)
of that section, of the following paragraph :—

“(mmm) the profits and income within the meaning
of paragraph (a) of section 3 arising to any
person from the sale, on or after April 1,
1998, of gold, gems or jewellery 5";

(2) by the insertion immediately after paragraph “(w) of
that section, of the following paragraph—

“(ww) any profits and income within the meaning
of paragraph (a) of section 3 derived by, or
arising or accruing to any person from the
sale on or after November 6, 1997, of any
bond, debenture or other debt instrument
issued by a company and held by him being
a bond, debenture or other debt instrument
which at the time of such sale is quoted in
any official list published by any Stock
Exchange licensed by the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka ;” 5

(3) in paragraph (y) of that section by the substitution for
the words “conducted by the National Lotteries
Board.”, of the words “conducted by the National
Lotteries Board ; and” ;


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 7

(4) by the addition, at the end of paragraph (y) of that
section of the following paragraphs :—

‘ew

@)

any interest or discount accruing to the “Sudu
Nelum Movement” established by the
Government and registered under section 114
of the Trust Ordinance being interest or discount
on any sum of money deposited by the Sudu
Nelum Movement with any commercial bank ;

the relevant part of the profits and income within
the meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3,
arising or accruing to any primary dealer on or
after April 1, 1998.

For the purposes of this paragraph—

(® the expression “relevant part” in relation
to the profits and income and to any primary
dealer means the profits and income of such
primary dealer from dealing, in the
secondary market, in any treasury bill,

+ treasury bond, registered stock or other
security issued under the Registered Stocks
and Securities Ordinance and held by such
primary dealer, after deducting from such
profits and income such part of the interest
oF Giscount which would have accrued in
respect of such bill, bond, stock or other
security had such bill, bond, stock or other
security been held by such primary dealer
until such bill, bond, stock or other security
matured, as is attributable to the period
during which such bill, bond, stock or other
security is held by such primary dealer ;

the expression “primary dealer” means any
financier or bank appointed by the
Monetary Board of the Central Bank of Sri
Lanka under the Local Treasury Bills
Ordinance or the Registered Stocks and
Securities Ordinance and functioning as a
primary dealer in treasury bills, treasury
bond, registered stock or other security.



‘Amendment of
section 17n of the
principal
‘enactment

‘Amendment of
section 17x of,
the principal
‘enactment,

8 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

8. Section 171 of the principal enactment inserted by
Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby amended in subsection (2) of
that section as follows :— ‘

(1) by the substitution for paragraph (b) of that subsection,
of the following paragraph :—

“(®) is approved by the Minister, to be a company to
which this section applies, by Order published
im the Gazette,—

(i) on or before March 31, 1998, on an
application in writing in that behalf made
on or before December 31, 1997 ;

Gi) on or before March 31, 2000, on an
application in writing in that behalf made
after December 31, 1997, but on or before
December 31, 199:

(2) by the substitution, for paragraph (d) of that
subsection, of the following paragraph :—

“(d) has invested—

(i) before December 31, 1998, in the case of a
company referred to in subparagraph (i) of
Paragraph (6) ; and

(ii) before December 31, 2000 in the case of a
company referred to in subparagraph (ii) .
of paragraph (6),

not less than four million rupees, in the purchase,
for the use of the undertaking carried on by that
company, of any plant, machinery, fixtures or
‘equipment.

9. Section 17Kx of the praincipal enactment inserted by
Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby amended as follows :—


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 9

(2) in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution
for paragraph (6) of that subsection of the following
paragraph :—

“(B) isapproved by the Minister by Notice published
in the Gazette on or before—

(i) March 31, 1998, on an application in
writing in that behalf made on or before
December 31, 1997 ; or

(ii) March 31, 2000, on an application in
writing in that behalf made after December
31, 1997 but before December 31, 1999,

to be an undertaking to which this section
applies ; and";

(2) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution
for paragraph (b) of that subsection of the following
paragraph :-—

“(b) the expression “relevant date ” in relation to any
undertaking which is approved in accordance.
with—

(i) sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (b) of
subsection (2), means the first day of any
calender month not earlier than November
1996 but not later than April 1998 ;

ii) sub-paragraph (ii) of paragrph (6) of
subsection (2), means the first day of any
calender month not earlier than November
1997 but not later than April 2000—

and which is selected by that undertaking, and
notified to the Commissioner-General, in
writing, not later than thirty days from the last
date of that month :


10 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

Provided that where the relevant date is not
80 notified to the Commissioner General, the
relevant date in relation to any undertaking
which is approved in accordance with—

(i) sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (6) of
subsection (2), shall be deemed to be April
1, 1997;

Gi) sub-paragraph (ii) of paragraph (6) of
subsection (2), shall be deemed to be April
1, 1999",

Insertion of new 10. The following new sections are hereby inserted,
ee immediately after section 17xx, and shall have effect as
principal section 171, and section 17M respectively, of the principal
enactment, enactment :—

“Exemption 17L The profits and income within thb
from income meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other than
‘ax ofthe | any profits and income from the sale of capital

proftsand assets), of any person or partnership from any
anyunder Undertaking for the provision of services of

“taking which refrigerated transport or cold-room-storage Of
provide for other services ancillary thereto, shall be exempt
certain from income tax for a period of five’ years
services. reckoned from—

(@) April 1, 1998 ; or
(®) the commencement of the year of

assessment in which such undertaking
commences to carry on business,

whichever is later.

Exemption 17M (1) The profits and income within the
femincome “meaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (other than
Profitsand ANY profits and income from the sale of capital
income of assets), of any company from any specifies
company _UNdertaking referred to in subsection (2) shall
engaged in notwithstanding the provisions of section 320000
non- be exempt from income tax for a period of ten
vertu Years reckoned from—

aatvities,


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 \1
(@) April 1, 1998 ; or

(6) the commencement of the year of
assessment in which such company
commences to carry on business,

whichever is later.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)
“specified undertaking” in relation to any
company is an undertaking carried on by such
company and which is engaged in—

(a) cultivating land with plants of whatever
description other than tea, rubber and
coconut ; or

(6) the production of planting materials
certified by the Department of Agriculture
as being of high quality, for cultivation
referred to in paragraph (a) ; or

(©) carrying out research work for improving
the quality and character of planting
materials for cultivation of land referred
to in paragraph (a)’.

__ LL. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 20c, and shall have the effect as
section 200 of the principal enactment :-—

Demetion 20p (1) The profits and income, within the
tidintene  ™eaning of paragraph (a) of secion 3, (other than
ofa any profits from the sale of capital assets), of any
sempary company from any specified undertaking referred
exports, to in subsection (2) shall, notwithstanding

freshor anything to the contrary in Chapter vita, be
peered ‘exempt from income tax for a period of ten years
orfruitsand Teckoned from—

caltivates

cries (@) April 1, 1998 ; or

Insertion of |
section 200 in the
principal
‘enactment.


‘Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
‘enactment,

12 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(6) the commencement of the year of
assessment in which such undertaking
commences to carry on business,

whichever is later,

(2) For the purpose of subsection (1),
“specified undertaking” in relation to any
company and to any year of assessment means
an undertaking carried on by that company and
which is engaged in—

(i) the export of any fresh or processed
vegetables or fruits ; and

ii) cultivation in that year of assessment, of
Jand not less than five acres in extent with
vegetables or fruits.

In this section, vegetables include betel

leaves.’.
12. Section 23 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, no. 24 of 1997, is hereby further amended as
follows :

(1) in subsection (1) of that section—
@ in paragraph (cee) of that subsection—

(@ by the substitution, in sub-paragraph
(ia) of that paragraph, for the words and
figure “(other than plant, machinery or
fixtures referred to in sub-paragraph (ii))”,
of the words and figures “(other than plant,
machinery or fixtures referred to in sub-
paragraph (ii) or (iia))";

(ii) by the substitution in sub paragraph (ii) of
that paragraph, for the words and figures
“any motor vehicle, lorry, bus, tractor,
trailer or office furniture acquired by such


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 13

person on or after April 1, 1987,” of the
words and figures “any motor vehicle, lorry,
bus, tractor, trailer or office furniture (other
than any motor coach, referred to in sub-
Paragraph (iia)) acquired by such person
on or after April 1, 1987:"s

(ii) by the insertion, immediately after
subparagraph (ii), of that paragraph of the
following sub-paragraph :—

“(iia) any motor coach acquired by such
person on orafter April 1, 1998, and
used for transporting employees of
such person (o, or from, their place
of work, at the rate of one hundred
per centum on its cost of
acquistion”

(6) by the substitution in paragraph (#) of that
subsection, for the words “a special levy, to the
Government.", of the word “a special levy to
the Government ; and ;";

(c) by the addition, at the end of paragraph (1) of
that subsection, of the following paragraph :—
“(u) any expenses incurred on or after

November 6, 1997, but on or before
March 31, 1999 by any company in
obtaining quotation of the shares of such
company, in any official list published by
any Stock Exchange licensed by the
Securities and Exchange Commission of
Sri Lanka, if such quotation is so obtained,
on or before March 31, 1999."

(2) iin subsection (7) of that section—

(@) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (ii) of
paragraph (c), of that subsection for the words
“is other wise than by sale,” of the following
words :



14 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(6)

()

“is otherwise than by sale, after deducting,
from such sale price or market value, as the case
may be, the amount of goods and services tax
chargeable under the Goods and Services Tax
Act, No. 34 of 1996, on the disposal of such
capital asset if such tax is included in such sale
price or market value as the case may be ;”

in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph (f) of that
subsection, by the substitution for the words “by
such individual or partnership”, of the words
“by such individual or partnership ;" ;

by the addition at the end of sub-paragraph (iii)
of paragraph (f) of that subsection of the
following paragraph :—

“(iv) where any person is entitled, under the
Goods and Services tax Act, No. 34 of
1996, to claim credit for input tax paid in
relation to the acquisition or the
construction of any capital asset, the cost
of acquisition or the cost of construction,
as the case may be, of such capital asset
shall not include such input tax.”.

13. Section 24 of the principal enactment as anended
by Act, No. 24 of 1997, is hereby amended in subsection (1)
of that section as follows :-—

(1) iin subparagraph (iii) of paragraph (1) of that subsection
by the substitution, for the words “prescribed tax or
levy.”, of the words “prescribed tax or levy.” ; and”;

(2) by the addition at the end of sub-paragraph (iii) of
that paragraph, of the following paragraph :—

“tw

input tax under the Goods and Services Tax Act
No. 34 of 1996, for the period for which the
profits and income are being ascertained in


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 15

respect of any taxable activity, within the
‘meaning of that Act, carried on by such person,
if such person is entitled under that Act, toclaim
cerdit for such input tax”

14. Section 29 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 24 of 1997 is hereby further amended as

follows :

(1) in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section—

(@)

()

in item (ii) (a) of that paragraph by the
substitution for the words and figures ‘subsection
(74), a toss referred to in paragraph (6) of”, of
the words and figures “subsection (7A), subsection
(78), a loss referred to in paragraph (6) of”; and

in item (iv) of the proviso to paragraph (6) of that
section by the substitution, for the words and
figures “subsection (7) or in subsection (7A),
incurred”, of the words and figures “subsection
(7), subsection (7A) or subsection (7) incurred”;

(2) in subsection (3) of that section by the substitution in
paragraph (6), of that subsection, for all the words
and figures from “such entirety or portion shall be” to
“the manner provided for in paragraph (b) of
subsection (2)”, of the following :-—

such entirety or portion shall be deducted from
his total statutory income for the next succeeding
‘year of assessment and so on :

Provided that where such first year of assessment

is any year of assessment—

@

ending on or before March 31, 1997, the residue,
if any, of such entirety or of such portion after its
deduction from the total statuory income of such
person for each of the years of assessment
succeeding the year of assessment in which such
loss was incurred but prior to the year of

‘Amendment of
section 29 ofthe
principal
enactment


16 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

di)

assessment commencing on April 1, 1997,
shall be deemed to be a loss incurred by such
person in such undertaking in the year of
assessment ending on March 31, 1998 and may
accordingly ;

commencing on or after April, 1997, the residue,
if any, of such entirety or of such portion, after,
its deduction from the total statuory income of
such person for that year of assessment, shall be
deemed to be a loss incurred by such person in
that undertaking in the year of assessment
immediately succeeding that year of assessment
and may accordingly,

be deducted in the manner provided in paragraph (6)
of subsection (2)” ; and

(3) by the insertion immediately after subsection (7A) of
that section of the following subsection :—

“(7). ‘There shall be deducted from the total statuory

income of a person for any year of assessment
‘commencing on or after April 1, 1997, where
such income includes profits and income from
any business of leasing, any loss for any year
of assessment commencing on or after April
1, 1997 incurred from the business of leasing
which if it had been a profit would have been
assessable under this Act, and which has not
been so deducted from his total statuory
income of a previous year :

Provided that such deduction shall in no
case exceed the amount of the profits and
income of such business included in such total
statuory income ; and shall be made as far as
Possible, from the total statuory income of


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 17

such person for the first year of assessment
after that in which the loss was incurred and
0 far as it cannot be so made, then from the
total statuory income of the next succeeding
year of assessment and so on.”.

1S. Section 30 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in the third proviso to subsection (2) of that section
by the substitution, for the words and figures “any year of
assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1989", of the
words and figures “any year of assessment commencing on or
after April 1, 1989, but prior to March 31, 197 and for the
period commencing from March 31, 1997 to December 31,

16. Section 31 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 16 of 1996, is hereby further amended as
follows :

(1) in subsection (2) of that section—

(a) in paragraph (q) of that subsection, by the
substitution, for the words and figures “Tax
Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1978.", of the words and
figures “Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1978

(b) ‘by the addition immediately after paragraph (q)
of that subsection of the following paragraphs :—

(any sum invested by any individual, on or
after November 6, 1997 but on or before
March 31, 1999, in the purchase of any
ordinary share, other than any existing share
in any company, the shares of which are
quoted as at March 31, 1999 in any official
list published by any Stock Exchange
lincensed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka ;

‘Amendment of
section 30 of the
principal
‘enactment.

‘Amendment of
section 31 of the
principal
‘enactment.


18 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(5) any sum invested by any person on or after
November 6, 1997 but before April 1, 2000,
in the purchase of any ordinary share other
than any existing share, in any company—

(A) which,

@ is incorporated on. or after
November 6, 1997 ;

Gii) has entered into an agreement
with the Board of Investment of
Sri Lanka under section 17 of the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law No. 4 of 1978,

and is engaged in accordance with that

agreement in any undertaking for the

development of infrastructure facilities

in Sri Lanka ; and

(B) (i) of which the issued share
capital as at March 31, 2000 is not
less than three hundred million
Rupees : and
(ii) which has, as at March 31, 2000
invested not less than five hundred
million Rupees
(@) in the purchase or
construction of any building
or in the purchase of any land,
plant, machinery or furniture 5
and

(6) inthe acquisition of any other
asset not included in
Paragraph (a)

for the use of the undertaking

carried on by the company ;



Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 19

(any sum invested, on or after April 1, 1998,
but prior to March 31, 2000 by any person in
the purchase of any ordinary share, other than

isting share, in any company referred

(®) section 1 (aaaa)” ; or

i) section 17m, where the sum invested is.
not less than ten million Rupees and it
is proved to the statisfaction of the
Assessor that such sum is utilised by
such company in carrying on any
specified undertaking referred to in that
section,

(2) in subsection (5c) of that section—

(i) in paragraph (a)—
(@) by the substitution in paragraph (i), for the
words and figure and letters “paragraphs (6),
(0), (m), (n) and (q) of subsection (2),”, of
the words and figure and letters “paragraphs
(6), (©), (m), (nm), (g), (7), (8) and (1) of
subsection (2)
(b) by the substitution in sub-paragraph (iii), for
the words “such assessable income ; and’
of the words “such assessable income ;" ;

(c) by the insertion, immediately after sub-
Paragraph (iii) of that subsection of the
following sub-paragraphs :—

“(iiia) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph (r) of
subsection (2), made by him or
deemed to have been made by him,
shall not exceed one-third of such
assessable income ;

Giib) in respect of all qualifying payments
referred to in paragraph (s) of
subsection (2) made by him or
deemed to have been made by him,
shall not exceed one-third of such
assessable income ; and *



20 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(ii) in paragraph (6), by the substitution for the words
and letters “paragraphs (6), (c), (m) and (n) of ",
of the words and letters “paragraphs (b),(c), (m),
(n) and (1) of ”.

(3) in subsection (6) of that section—

(a) by the substitution, in paragraph (i) of that
subsection for the words “in any year of
assessment ; or”, of the words “in any year of
assessment ; .

(b) by the substitution, in paragraph (ii) of that
subsection for the words and letters “in paragraph
(q) of, of the words and letters “in paragraph (9)
or (s) of

(4) by the insertion, immediately after subsection (7A) of
that section of the following subsection :-—

“(7ax) Where any person who is entitled to a
deduction from his assessable income of an allowance
under subsection (1) in respect of the purchase of any
share in any company, sells such share or withdraws,
realizes or receives any money in respect of such share,
and purchase other ordinary shares in respect of which
he is entitled to a deduction from his assessable income
under that subsection, the deduction from income tax
to which he is entitled to in respect of the second-
mentioned purchase of shares shall be reduced by the
amount of the deduction from income tax to which he
was entitled in consequence of the first-mentioned
purchase of shares.”.

17, Section 31A of the principal enactment inserted by

Act, No. 24 of 1997 is hereby amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution
for sub paragraph (i) of paragraph (a) of that
subsection of the following paragraph :-—


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 21

“(i) on or after November 6, 1996 but
April 1, 2000 ;”

jor to

(2) in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution,
for the words “the entirety of such investment
whichever is less” wherever those words occur in that
subsection, of the words “the entirety of such
investment tax allowance whichever is less” ;

(3) in subsection (6) of that section, by the substitution in
Paragraph (ii) of that subsection, for the words and
figures “commencing on November 6, 1996 and
ending on March 31, 1999, is entitled”, of the words
and figures :
“commencing on—

(a) November 6 , 1996 and ending on March 31,
1999, where such asset was acquired or deemed
to have been acquired before April 1, 1998 ; or

(6) April 1, 1998, and ending on March 31, 2001,
where such asset is acquired or deemed to have
been acquired on or after April 1, 1998,

is entitled”.

18. Section 32ccc of the principal enactment inserted by Amendment of
Act, No. 16 of 1996 is hereby amended by the addition, at the Pacer of

end of that section of the following subsection :— enactment.

“(3) Where an individual who is employed in a company
referred to in paragraph (aaaaa) of section 11, and
who is deemed under subsection (7) of section 67 to
be non-resident for a period of five years, continues
to be employed in such company in Sri Lanka after
the expiry of such period of five years, the profits
from employment in that company of such individual


Amendment of
section 320 of the
principal
‘enactment,

Insertion of new
sections 32000,
320000 and
3200000 in the
Principal
‘enactment,

22 Inlar

nd Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

for the period commencing from the end of such
period of five years and ending on the last date of
the period during which the dividends paid by such
company are exempt from income tax, shall,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Chapter
VIII of this Act, be chargeable with income tax at
the rate of fifteen per centum.”.

19. Section 32p of the principal enactment inserted by

Act, No.

11 of 1989, is hereby amended in subsection (1) of

that section by the substitution, for the words “held by the
Central Bank of Sri Lanka” of the words “held prior to January

1, 1998,

by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka.”.

20. The following new sections are hereby inserted,
immediately after section 32pp and shall have effect as

sections 32ppp, 320Dpp and 32ppp00 respectively of the
principal enactment :—

“Rate of 32opp (1) Where the taxable income of any
income tax person (other than a company) for any year of
eebrokis assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1998,
undertakings includes any profits and income from any
cariedon agricultural undertaking or any undertaking for

byaperson the promotion of tourism (hereinafter in this

other than a

company.

section referred to as “specified profits”) and the
rate of income tax payable on a part of such
income (hereinafter in this section referred to as
“the relevant part of the income”) exceeds fifteen
per centum, then in regard to the relevant part of
the income, the tax shall be computed as
follows :-—

(@) if the relevant part of the income exceeds
the amount of such “specified profits”"—
(®) the tax payable on such portion of the
relevant partof the income as is equal
to the amount of such specified
profits, shall be at the rate of fifteen

per centum ; and


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 23

ii) the tax payable on the balance of the
relevant part of the income shall be
computed according to the rates of
tax above fifteen per centum as are
applicable thereto under this Act;

(©) ifthe relevant part of the income does not
exceed the amount of such specified
profits, the tax payable on the entirety of
the relevant part of the income shall be at
the rate of fifteen per centum,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary,
to the other provisions of this Chapter or
Chapter VIIA.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)

(©), “agricultural undertaking” includes any
undertaking for—

( fishing ;

(ii) cultivating land with plants of
whatever description ; and

(iii) provision of the services of
managment to any undertaking for
cultivating land with plants of
whatever description ;

(®) “any undertaking for the promotion of
tourism” means an undertaking for the
operation of —

_ @ any hotel or guest house approved by
the Ceylon Tourist Board ; or

Gi) any restaurant graded by the Ceylon
‘Tourist Board as being in “Class A”
or “Class B”;


24 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

i

any business of a travel agent ;

(iv) any business of transporting
tourists ;

(v) any business approved by the Ceylon
Tourist Board for providing facilities
to tourists for recreation or sports.

(©) “profits and income from any agricultural
undertaking” means—

(i) in the case of an undertaking referred
to in sub-paragraph (iii) of paragraph
(a), the profits and income from fees
for providing the services of
management; and

ii) in any other case, the profits and
income from the sale of produce of
such undertaking without subjecting
such produce to any process of
production or manufacture:

Provided that where any person
carries on any undertaking for
subjecting the produce of any
agricultural undertaking to any
process of production oF
manufacture, the produce of the
agricultural undertaking shall for the
purpose of this sub-paragraph be
deemed to have been sold to such
undertaking for production or
‘manufacture at the open market price
prevailing at the time of the deemed
sale and the profit from the sale of
the produce of such agricultural

cundertaking shall be the profits
arising from such deemed sale.


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 25

Rate of
income tox
‘on profits
from
certatin
‘undertakings
carried on
bya
‘company,

Rate of
income tax
on dividends
aid out of
Profits taxed
in
accordance
with section
32 poop.

32pp0p. (1) Where the taxable income of any
company for any year of assessment commencing
onor after April I, 1998, includes any profits and
income from any agricultural undertaking or from
any undertaking for the promotion of tourism,
such part of such taxable income as consists of
such profits and income shall, notwithstanding,
anything to the contrary in any provisions of this
Chapter or ChapterVIIIa or Chapter IX be
chargeable with income tax at the rate of fifteen
per centum,

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the
expressions “agricultural undertaking”, “any
undertaking for the promotion of tourism” and
“the profits and income from any agricultural
undertaking”, shall have the respective meanings
assigned to them in section 32000.

32ppppp. (1) Where the taxable income of any
person (other than a company) for any year of
assessment includes any dividend-

(@) being adividend out of profits and income
referred to in section 32pD00; or

(b) being a dividend paid out of any such
dividend as is referred to in paragraph (a)
received by any company directly from a
‘company referred to in section 32 pppD
or through one or more intermediary
companies, if the first mentioned dividend.
is paid during the year of assessment in
which the profits and income referred to
in section 32 ppop arose or accrued or
within two years from the end of that year
of assessment,

and the rate of income tax payable on a part of
such income (hereinafter in this section referred
to as the relevant part of the income) exceeds


26 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

fifteen per centum, then in regard to the relevant
part of the income tax shall be computed as
follows :

(i) if the relevant part of the income
exceeds the amount of such
dividends—

the tax payable on such part of
the relevant part of the income as is
equal to the amount of such
dividends, shall be at the rate of
fifteen per centum ; and

the tax payable on the balance of
the relevant part of the income shall
be computed according to such of the
rates of the tax above fifteen per
centum as are applicable thereto
under this Act;

(ii) if the relevant part of the income
does novexceed the amount of such
dividend, tax payable on the entirety
of the relevant part of the income
shall be at the rate of fifteen per
centum, notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in the other provisions
of this Chapter or of Chapter VIIA.

(2) Where the taxable income of any
company includes any dividend referred to in
subsection (1), the rate of income tax applicable
to such part of such taxable income as consists
of such dividend shall, subject to the provisions
of section 35 be fifteen per centum”.

Prjiertol 21. The following new sections are hereby inserted,
Sse? immediately after section 32cc¢, and shall have effect as
32cm inthe sections 32eeee and 32eeece respectively of the principal
Principal enactment :-—

‘enactment,


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 27

“Deduction
from tax
payable by
any quoted
public
company
under certain
conditions.

32eee€. (1) Where for any year of assessment
‘commencing on or after April 1, 1998 the taxable
income of any company referred to in subsection
(2), includes any profits and income, within the
‘meaning of section 3(a), there shall be deducted
from the tax payable by that company for that
year of assessment, an amount equal to five per
Centum of such part of such taxable income as
consists of such profits and income :

Provided that where the amount so deductable
exceeds such tax payable by such company for
that year of assessment the excess shall not be
refunded.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, in
relation to the year of assessment referred to in
subsection (1), apply to any company—

(@) which is a quoted public company for that
year of assessment, and

(b) in respect of which the Assessor is
satisfied that, the number of persons
registered in the share register of such
company as shareholders is, at no time
during that year of assessment, less than
three hundred.

(3) Where in relation to any company—

(@) which is a quoted public company for the
year of assessment commencing on April
1, 1997, and

(6) in respect of which the Assessor is
satisfied that as at March 31, 1998, the
number of persons registered in the share
register of such company as shreholders

~ isnot less than three hundred,
the deduction referred to in subsection (1) shall


28 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

apply to that company for the year of assessment
commencing on April 1, 1997.

Deduction 32eEEeE (1) Where for any year of assessment
Soma commencing on or after April 1, 1998, the taxable
cen income of any company referred to in subsection
which (2) includes any profits and income, within the
obiainsa__ meaning of section 3(a), there shall be deducted
‘wotation of from the tax payable by that company for that
and ntigges Year of assessment, an amount equal to five per
certain Centum of such part of such taxable income as

conditions. consists of such profits and income :

Provided that where the aomunt so deductable
exceeds the tax payable by such company for that
year of assessment, the excess shall not be
refunded.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shall, in
relation to the year of assessment referred to in
subsection (1), apply to any company—

(@) the shares of which are as at March 31 of
that year of assessment,quoted in any
official list published by any Stock
Exchange licensed by the Securities and
Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka
consequent to an application made in that
year of assessment , and

(b) in respect of which the Assessor is
satisfied that as at March 31 of that year
of assessment the number of persons
registered in the share register of such
company as shareholders is not less than
three hundred.

3) Where in relation to any company—

(@) the shares of which are qouted, as at
March 31, 1999, in any official list
published by any Stock Exchange


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 29

licensed by the Securities and Exchange
Commission of Sri Lanka consequent to
an application made in that behalf on or
before March 31, 1998, and

(6) in respect of which the Assessor is
satisfied that as at March 31, 1998 the
number of persons registered in the share
register of such company as shareholders
is not less than three hundred, and the
deduction referred to in subsection (1),
shall apply to that company for the year
of assessment commencing on April 1,
1997, as an amount equal to two and one
half per centum of such part.

22. Sectin 33a of the principal enactment amended by
‘Act No. 24 of 1997 is hereby further amended in paragraph
in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution for the
words and figures “section 32F or section 32H”, of the words
and figures” section 32o000 or section 32F or section 32H.

23. Section 33c of the principal enactment as last
amended by Act No. 16 of 1996, is hereby further amended
as follows :—

(1) in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (1) of that
section—

(a) by the insertion, immediateiy after item (i) of that
sub-paragraph of the following item :—
“(ia) dividends in relation to which advance

company tax has been paid at fifty four per
centum ; and

(6) by the repeal of items (iva) and (ivb) of that sub-
paragraph and the substitution of the following
items therefor:—

“(v) dividends in relation to which advance
‘company tax has been paid at seventeen per
centum ;

‘Amendment of
section 334 of the
principal
enactment,

‘Acmendment of
section 33¢ of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment of
section 38 of the
Principal
enactment,

30 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(vi) dividends in relation to which advance
company tax has been paid at eleven per
centum ;

(vii) dividends in relation to which advance
company tax has been paid at eight per
centum ; and

(viii) dividends in relation to which advance
company tax has been paid at five per
centum ; ", ;

(2) in sub-paragraph (byof paragraph (2) of that section,
by the insertion, immediately after item (ii) of that
sub-paragraph, of the following item :—

“(iiia) under section 320000",

24. Section 38 of the principal enactment as amended
by Act, No. 16 of 1996, is hereby further amended in paragraph
(@) of subsection (2) of that section as follows :—

(1) by the insertion, immediately after item (i) of that
Paragraph, of the following item :

“(ia) dividends received, in relation to which
advance company tax has been paid at fifty
four per centum ;";

(2) by the repeal of items (iva) and (ivb) of that
paragraph, and the substitution, of the following items
therefor :—

“(iva) dividends received, in relation to which
advance company tax has been paid at
seventeen per centum ;

(ivb) dividends received in relation to which
advance company tax has been paid at eleven
er centum ;

(ive) dividends received in relation to which
advance company tax has been paid at five per
centum.”.


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 31

(ivd) dividends received, in relation to which
advance company tax has been paid at five per
centum.”.

25. Section 92 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the addition at the end of that section of the
following subsection :—

“(9) For the purpose of this section the expression
‘document’ includes any diskette, tape, compact disc
orany other thing in which any computer programme
or data is stored or recorded in codified form or
electronic, magnatic or other medium.”.

26. Section 108 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (2) of that section by the substitution,
for the words “amount as may be due under section 110.”, of
the following :-—

“amount as may be due under section 110 :

Provided that where in the opinion of the Assessor
any fraud, evasion or wilful default has been committed
by or on behalf of any employer in relation to any
income tax duductable by such employer in any year of
assessment, it shall be lawful for the Assessor to make
an assessment or an additional assessment on such
employer at any time after the end of that year of
assessment .”.

27. Section 113¢ of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution for all the words from “income
tax which such bank” to the end of that section, of the
following :-

“income tax which, in the opinion of the Assessor, such
bank or financial institution should have deducted and paid
to the Commissioner-General for such year of assessment,
and shall by notice in writing, require such bank or financial
institution to pay such amount forthwith together with such
amount-as may be due under section 1131 :

* Amendment of

section 92 of the

principal
‘enactment.

Amendment of
section 108 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 113F of
the principal
cenactment.


‘Amendment of
section 118 of
the principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 161 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment of
section 1614 of
the principal
‘enactment,

32 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

Provided that, where in the opinion of the Assessor
any fraud, evasion or wilful default, has been committed
by or on behalf of any such bank or financial institution,
in relation to any such income tax deductable by such
bank or financial institution, it shall be lawful for the
Assessor to make an assessment or an additional
asseeement on such bank or financial institution at any
time after the end of such year of assessment. ",

28. Section 118 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and
the substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

“@3) There shall be a panel of not more than three legal
advisors to the Board who shall be appointed by the
Board. ",

«29. Section 161 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (7) of that section by the insertion,
immediately after the definition of “article”, of the following
definition -—

“document ” includes any diskette, tape, compact disc
or any other thing in which any computer programme or
data is stored or recorded in codified form or in electronic,
magnetic or other medium; ”.

30. Section 1614 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :—

(1) in subsection (1) of that section by the insertion
immediately after paragraph (c) of that subsection of
the following paragraph —

(cc) operate any computer found in any such
building and take print outs of the whole or
part of any entries recorded or stored
therein



Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 33

(2) subsection (4) of that section is hereby amended by
the substitution for the definition of “ of the
following :~ “Article” and “document” shall have the
Tespective meanings assigned to them by section
161.",

31. Section 163 of the principal enactment as amended Amendment of
by the Act, No. 27 of 1995, is hereby further amended in Seal ofthe
Paragraph (B) of the definition of “qualifying distribution” Practment.

as follow:

(1) in item (6) of sub paragraph (i) of that paragraph by
the substitution for the words and figures “Board under
section 17 of such law, or” of the words and figures
“Board under section 17 of such law, being a rate
which is either ten per centum or fifteen per centum,
or thirty five per centum” ;

) in sub-paragraph (ii) of that paragraph by the
substitution for all the words and figures from “(ii)
are taxed in accordance with the provisions of section
32F” to the end of that definition of the following words
and figures :—

“Gi) are taxed in accordance with the provisions of
section 32F or of section 32x or of section 32k
or of section 32M or of section 32, or of section
320000,

but does not include any dividend —
(@) distributed out of —

(i) profits or income which accrued or arose to
such company prior to April 1, 1988 ;

i) its exempt profits or income ;

Giii)_any income from dividend received by such
‘company ;


‘Amendment of the
Sixth Schedule to
the principal
‘enactment.

‘Amendment
of the Seventh
Schedule to
the principal
‘enactment.

34° Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

(iv) profits and income which arose or accrued
to or was derived by such company from any
territory outside Sri Lanka, if such company
under any agreement referred to in section
82, is entitled to credit against any income
tax in respect of such profits and income
payable by such company under section
33(1)(a) of this Act, for any income tax
payable in such other territory in respect of
such profits and income ;

(¥) profits and income of a company referred to
in section 11(aaaaa) during the period in
which dividends paid out of such profits and
income, are exempt from tax ;

(©) paid to any person whose profits and income
are exempt from tax under paragraph (a) of
section 8 ;

(©) paid, on or after April 1, 1998, to any person who
is a non-resident ; and”.

32. Sixth Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the substitution, for the words and figures “person
( partnership out of Sri Lanka 33 1/3 per centum”, of the
following words and figures :—

“person or partnership out of Sri Lanka—

For any year of assessment
ending before April 1, 1998 33 1/3 per centum

For any year of assessment commencing
on or after April 1, 1998 20 per centum ” .
33. Seventh Schedule to the principal enactment
amended by Act, No. 24 of 1997 is hereby further amended
as follows :— .

(1) by the substitution for the words and figures “for every


Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 35

year of assessment commencing on or after April 1,
1997, shall be as follows : of the words and figures
“for every year of assessment commencing on or after
April 1, 1997, but prior to April 1, 1998, shall be as,
follows :—" ;

(2) by the addition at the end of that Schedule, of the
following -—

“The rates of advance company tax for every year
of assessment commencing on or after April 1, 1998
shall be as follows :-—

(i) on the amount equal to the amount of every
qualifying distribution, made by a quoted public
company—

(@) out of the profits (other than the profits which
are taxed, in accordance with the provisions,
of section 32F or section 32H or section 32K
or section 32m or section 32N or section
320000 or ata rate specified in any regulation
made under the Board of Investment of Sri
Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978). 54 percentum

(6) out of the profits which are taxed in
accordance with the provisions of section 324
or section 32k or section 32M or section 32N
or section 32ppp0 or atthe rate of fifteen per
centum specified in any regulation made
under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka
Law, No. 4 of 1978 and applicable to that
company. 17 per centum

(©) out of profits which are taxed in accordance
with the provisions of section 32F or at the
rate of ten per centum specified in any
regulation made under the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978
and applicable to that company.

11 per centum

(ii) on the amount 1 to the amount of every



Retrospective
effect.

36 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998

qualifying distribution made by a unit trust or a
mutual fund or any other company other than a
quoted public company—

(a)

()

()

out of profits (other than profits which are
taxed in accordance with the provisions of
section 32F or section 32x or section 32k or
section 32M or section 32N or section 320000
or at the rate specified in any regulation made
under the Board of Investment of Sri Lanka,
Law, No. 4 of 1978). 27 per centum

‘out of profits which are taxed in accordance
with the provisions of section 32# or section
32k or section 32m or section 32N or section
32p000 or at the rate of fifteen per centum
specified in any regulations made under the
Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No.
4 of 1978 and applicable to that company.

8 per centum
out of profits which are taxed in accordance
with the provisions of section 32F or at the
rate of ten per centum specified in any
regulation made under the Board of
Investment of Sri Lanka Law, No. 4 of 1978

and applicable to that company.
5 per centum.”.

34. (1) The amendment to section 8 of the principal
‘enactment made by section 2(2) and 2(3) of this Act, shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into force on December

1, 1996.

(2) The amendment to section 314 of the principal
enactment made by section 17(2) of this Act, shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into force on November

6, 1996.

(3) The amendment to section 29, of the princil



Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998 37

enactment made by section14 of this Act, shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on April 1, 1997;

(4) The provisions of section 21 of this Act shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on April 1, 1997.

(5) The amendment to—

(i) section 9 of the principal enactment made by section
3(2) to 3(4) of this Act ;

(ii) section 14 of the principal enactment made by section
6 of this Act ;

Gii)_ section 171 of the principal enactment made by section
8 of this Act ;

(iv) section 17Kk of the principal enactment made by
section 9 of this Act ;

(¥) section 23 of the principal enactment made by section
12(1) of this Act ;

(vi) section 31 of the principal enactment made by section
16 of this Act, other than the insertion of paragraph
(D in subsection (2) of section 31,

shall be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on
November 6, 1997.

(6) The amendments to sections 8, 30 and 32D of the
Principal enactment made by sections 2(1), 15 and 19
Fespectively of this Act shall be deemed for all purposes to
have come into force on January 1, 1998

(7) The amendment to—
@ section 10 of the principal enactment made by section

4 of this Act ;
Gii)_section 15 of the principal enactment made by section


38 Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act No. 52 of 1998
7 of this Act ;

Gi) section 200 of the principal enactment made by section
11 of this Act ;

(iv) section 23 of the principal enactment made by section
12 (other than by paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection
(1), of this Act,

(¥) section 24 of the principal enactment made by section
13 of this Act ;

(vi) section 314 of the principal enactment made by section
17(1) and 17 (3) of this Act ;

(vii) section 163 of the principal enactment made by section
31 of this Act ;

(viii) the Sixth Schedule and the Seventh Schedule made
by section 32 and section 33 respectively of this Act.

shall be deemed for all purposes to have come into force on
April 1, 1998,

(8) The provisions of section 20 of the Act shall be deemed
for all purposes to have come into force on April 1, 1998.

‘Sinhala text to 35. Inthe eventof any inconsistency between the Sinhala

prevail incase of n Cf i
Inconsistency > and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail
