PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

_ NATIONAL LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION
SERVICES BOARD ACT, No. 51 OF 1998

[Certified on 18th November, 1998}
Printed on the Order of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 20, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs, 14.75. . 7 Postage : Rs. 5.25 —


National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

[Certified on 18th November, 1998]

L.D.—O. 15/95.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION SERVICES BOARD AND THE
NATIONAL LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION CENTRE; AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Library and
Documentation Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998, and shall
come into operation on such date as may be appointed by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed date”).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT, OF THE NATIONAL LIBRARY AND
DOCUMENTATION SERVICES BOARD

2. (1) There shall be established a body which shall be
called the National Library and Documentation Services
Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”).

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it under sub-
section (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

_(3) The Head Office of the Board shall be at the National
Library and Documentation Centre in Colombo. Branch
offices of the Board may, with the prior written approval of
the Minister, be established in such places as the Board may
consider necessary.

3. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—

(a) seven members appointed by the Minister from
among persons who have gained eminence in the
fields of Higher and General Education, one of whom
shall be appointed by the Minister as Chairman of
the Board ; and. |

D049768—8,550 (98/08)

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of
the National
Library and
Documentation
Services Board. —

Constitution of the
Board.


National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

{Certified on 18th November, 1998]

L.D.—O. 15/95.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL
LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION SERVICES BOARD AND THE
NATIONAL LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION CENTRE; AND FOR
MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO :

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Library and
Documentation Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998, and shall
come into operation on such date as may be appointed by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette (hereinafter
referred to as the “appointed date”).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT, OF THE NATIONAL LIBRARY AND
DOCUMENTATION SERVICES BOARD

2. (1) There shall be established a body which shall be
called the National Library and Documentation Services
Board (hereinafter referred to as the “Board”.

(2) The Board shall, by the name assigned to it under sub-
section (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in such name.

(3) The Head Office of the Board shall be at the National
Library and Documentation Centre in Colombo. Branch
offices of the Board may, with the prior written approval of
the Minister, be established in such places as the Board may
consider necessary.

3. (1) The Board shall consist of the following :—

(a) seven members appointed by the Minister from
among persons who have gained eminence in the
fields of Higher and General Education, one of whom
shall be appointed by the Minister as Chairman of
the Board ; and. |

‘D049768—8,550 (98/08)

Short title and
date of operation.

Establishment of
the National
Library and
Documentation
Services Board. —

Constitution of the
Board.


a National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(b) seven ex-officio members or their authorized
representatives, namely :

(i) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Education ;

(ii) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Cultural Affairs ;

(iil) the Secretary to the Ministry of the Minister in
charge of the subject of Public Administration ;

(iv) the Chairman of the Natural Resources, Energy
and Science Authority established by Act, No.
78 of 1981 ;

(v) the President of the Sri Lanka Library
Association ;

(vi) the Chairman of the Computer and Information
Technology Council of Sri Lanka, established
by Act, No. 10 of 1984 ; and

(vii) arepresentative from the Treasury.

(2) Where an ex-officio member is represented on the
Board by an authorized representative, such representative
shall be fully empowered to speak and act on behalf of such
member, in respect of all or any of the matters arising at any
meeting of the Board, or at any other Committee established
under this Act.

(3) The Chairman and every member of the Board
appointed under paragraph (a) of sub section (1) shall, unless
he earlier vacates office, hold office for a period of three years
and be eligible for reappointment.

(4) Every ex-officio member of the Board shall hold office
as long as he holds the post by virtue of which he is a member
of the Board. |


National Library and Documentation 3
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(5) The members of the Board, and the members of any
committee appointed under section 7, may be paid such
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(6) The Chairman and any member of the Board appointed
under paragraph (a) of-subsection (1) shall vacate office as
such Chairman or member if —

(a) he is removed from office by the Minister ; or

(6) he resigns his office by letter addressed to the
Minister.

(7) Where the Chairman or a member of the Board
appointed under paragraph (a) of subsection (1) dies or resigns
or is removed from office, the Minister shall appoint another
person to be the Chairman or member as the case may be in
place of such Chairman or member who dies, resigns or is
removed from office.

(8) A member of the Board appointed under subsection
(7) in place of a Chairman or member who dies, resigns or is
removed from office, shall, unless he earlier vacates his office
by death or removal, or resignation, hold office for the

unexpired period of the term of office of his predecessor in
Office.

(9) Where a member of the Board appointed under
Paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) is, by reason of illness or
other infirmity, or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable
to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint
another person to act in his place.

(10) A person shall be disqualified from being appointed
or from continuing, as a member of the Board, if he is or
becomes a member of Parliament, a member of a Provincial
Council or a member of a local authority.


Functions of the
Board.

(a)

(5)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(A)

(i)

National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

The functions of the Board shall be—

to assess the need for library and documentation
services among all sectors of the community and to
promote the development of library and
documentation services ;

to administer, manage and control, the affairs of the
National Library and Documentation Centre
established under section 12 ;

to advise the Minister regarding plans, programmes
and activities for the development of library and
documentation services in Sri Lanka ;

to provide co-ordination for, and promote co-
operation in, library and documentation services in
Sri Lanka ; .

to provide professional advice and training, and to
facilitate the provision of, technical, material and
financial assistance, including the provision of
furniture, equipment and library and documentation
materials, to libraries and librarians in Sri Lanka ;

to promote the development of the library and
documentation profession in Sri Lanka ;

to initiate, promote, conduct and co-ordinate,

‘Tesearch, surveys and investigations in relation to all

aspects of library and documentation services ;

to formulate and promulgate national standards with
regard to all aspects of library and documentation
Services ;

to promote the reading habit through the production
of publications, the provision of advice and assistance
to other agencies for the production of publications,
and through exhibitions, displays and other
promotional activities;


(@)

(k)

(*)

National Library and Documentation 5
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

to organize meetings, training courses, exhibitions
and other activities in connection with any aspect of
its work ;

to initiate and finance competitions, prizes and awards
in connection with any aspect of its activities ; and

to do all such acts and things which in the opinion of
the Board are necessary for, or conducive or incidental
to, the discharge of its functions.

5. The Board shall have the power—

(a)

(b)

to establish, manage and maintain the National
Library and Documentation Centre and such other
libraries or documentation centres as the Board
considers necessary for the discharge of its
functions ;

to enter into and perform all such agreements and
contracts, in Sri Lanka and elsewhere, as may be
necessary for the exercise of its powers, or the
performance of its duties, in particular with regard
to—

(i) the acquisition of library and documentation
. Materials through Sri Lankan publications
deposited in the Department of National
Archives under the Printers and Publishers
Ordinance (Chapter 179), purchase, gift and
exchange ;

(ii) the creation, collection and dissemination of
bibliographic records ;

(iii) the establishment, operation and development
of libraries and documentation centres and the
provision of library and documentation
services ;

Powers of the
Board.


(c)

(d)

(e)

(g)

(A)

National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(iv) the inter lending and copying of library and
documentation materials ;

(v) the preparation, production and distribution of
publications ;

(vi) the education and training of library and
documentation staff and users ;

to acquire and hold any movable or immovable
property and to sell, lease, mortgage, exchange or
otherwise dispose of the same :

Provided, however, that no immovable property of
the Board shall be sold without the prior approval in .
writing of the Minister ;

to open and maintain, current, savings and deposit
accounts in any bank ;

to accept grants or donations, from persons or bodies
of persons, in or outside Sri Lanka ;

to delegate to the Chairman, and the Director General, ~
as the Board may deem appropriate, any power, duty
or function conferred or imposed on or assigned to
the Board by this Act ;

to engage in activities not inconsistent with the
functions of the Board, for generating income to be
utilized for discharging the functions of the Board.

to employ such number of officers, agents and
servants as it considers necessary for the efficient
discharge of its functions and the performance of its
duties under this Act, and to exercise control over
and dismiss any officer, agent or servant so appointed.

awe st
aol
-


National Library and Documentation 7
Services Board Act, No.-51 of 1998

6. (1) The Chairman of the Boardshall preside at all
meetings of the Board. In his absence the
members of the Board present at any meeting shall elect one
among themselves to preside at such meeting.

(2) The Chairman shall be the Accounting Officer of the
Board.

(3), The Chairman shall exercise such powers, and perform
such duties and functions, as may be delegated to him by the
Board under paragraph (f) of section 5.

(4) If the Chairman becomes, by reason of illness or any
other infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, temporarily unable
to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may appoint
another member of the Board appointed under paragraph (a)
of subsection (1) of section 3 to act in his place.

(S) The Chairman shall be paid such salary or
remuneration as may be determined by the Minister, with the
concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(6) Subject to the provisions of subsection (6) of section
3, the term of office of the Chairman Shall be his period of
membership of the Board.

7. The Board may, with the prior approval of the Minister—

(a) appoint such committees, consisting of such number
of its members or other persons as specified in
paragraph (c) of this section, as may be determined
by the Board ;

(b) determine the terms of reference, powers, functions
and duties of such committees ;

(c) appoint as a member of any such committee, any
officer of the Board or any other person with
appropriate specialized knowledge of, or special
interest in, the terms of reference of such Committee,
provided that such persons, not being members of

Chairman of the
Board.

Appointment of
Committees.


Meetings of the

Board.

Quorum.

Procedure at
meetings of the
Board.

8 National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1995

the Board, shall not be entitled to vote at the meetings
of such Committees, on any resolution authorizing,
or requesting the Board to authorize the expenditure
of any part of the monies of the Fund established
under section 20 ; and

(d) make rules for the conduct of the business of such
Committees.

8. The Board shall meet at least once every month.

9. The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall be five
members.

10. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 9, the Board
may regulate the procedure in regard to its meetings and the
transaction of business at such meetings.

(2) The Director-General appointed under subsection (1)
of section 13 shall act as Secretary of the Board. The Secretary
shall attend all meetings of the Board and keep minutes of
such meetings. The Secretary shall not be entitled to vote at
any such meeting.

(3) The Chairman, or in his absence the Director-General,
may at any time, and shall on the request in writing of at least
four members of the Board, call a special meeting of the Board.

(4) All matters requiring determination at any meeting of
the Board shall be decided by the vote of a majority of the
members present. In case of an equality of votes, the Chairman
or any member presiding at such meeting of the Board shall,
in addition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

(5) Noact or decision or proceeding of the Board shall be |
invalidated by reason only of the existence of a vacancy among
its members or any defect in the appointment of a member
thereof. |


11.

National Library and Documentation — 9
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

All property acquired or held by the Board and all

monies paid to or received by the Board shall be used in
furtherance of its functions.

PART II

ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL LIBRARY AND DOCUMENTATION

12.

CENTRE

(1) There shall be established, under the management

and control of the Board, a National Library and

Documentation Centre (hereinafter referred to as the “Centre”). ;

(2) Subject to the provisions of section 4, the functions of

the Centre shall be—

(a)

(5)

(c)

(d)

(e)

to make available for the use of all sections of the
community, a national collection of library and
documentation resources appropriate to their needs ;

to preserve the national and cultural heritage of Sri
Lanka through the establishment, development and
maintenance of a national collection of library and
documentation materials, published in, or relating to,
Sri Lanka ;

to receive copies of Sri Lankan publications deposited
in the Department of National Archives under the
Printers and Publishers Ordinance (Chapter 179) ;

to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, copies of
publications published in, or relating to, Sri Lanka,
or of foreign publications relevant to the needs of Sri
Lanka ; )

to provide bibliographic services, including National
Bibliographic Services and to compile a National
Union Catalogue of library materials of libraries in
Sri Lanka;

to establish and create a national bibliographic
database of documents and publications, published
in, or relating to, Sri Lanka; © .

Application of
property, money
&c., of the Board.

Establishment and
Functions of the
National Library
and
Documentation
Centre.


10

(2)
(h)

(1)

))

(k)

(!)

(m)

National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

to publish the National Bibliography of Sri Lanka ;

to provide reference, information, referral,
reprographic and documentary research services to
all sections of the community of Sri Lanka ;

to facilitate access to the library and documentation
resources which are, or may in future become,
available in or outside Sri Lanka to all members of
the community ;

to promote, advise and assist in, the establishment,
development and maintenance of, library and
documentation networks, including networks of
public, school, academic, government and other
libraries and documentation centres serving all
sections of the community in Sri Lanka ;

to promote and facilitate co-operation and resource
sharing among libraries and documentation centres,
at national and international levels, including
exchanges of library materials, interlibrary lending
and document copying, and the training and exchange
of staff ;

to promote the introduction and efficient application
of new information technologies in libraries and
documentation centres in Sri Lanka through the
application of such technologies in the work of the
Centre and to provide advice, assistance and training
to other bodies regarding the introduction of such
technologies, or promotional activities ; and

to undertake such projects, and provide such facilities
and services, in pursuance of the functions of the
Board, as the Board may from time to time require.

(3) The functions of the Centre shall be discharged under
the direction of the Director-General in his capacity as the
principal Executive Officer of the Board.


National Library and Documentation 11
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

PART III

APPOINTMENT OF THE DIRECTOR GENERAL OF THE BOARD AND
STAFF OF THE BOARD

13. (1) The Board shall appoint to the staff of the Board,
a Director-General (in this Act referred to as the “Director-
General”) who shall be the principal Executive Officer and
Secretary of the Board.

(2) The Director of National Library Services appointed
under the Ceylon National Library Services Board Act holding
office on the day immediately preceding the appointed date,
and who has not reached his age of retirement shall if he
consents, be the first Director-General of the Board.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the general
direction of the Board, be charged with the administration of
the affairs of the Board and the control of the officers and
servants of the Board. He shall also be responsible for the
execution of all the decisions of the Board.

(4) The Director-General shall exercise, perform and
discharge, such powers, functions and duties as may be
delegated to him by the Board.

(5) The Director-General shall be entitled to be present
and to speak, but not to vote, at any meeting of the Board or
any other committee established under this Act.

(6) The office of the Director-General shall become vacant
upon the death of, or resignation by letter to that effect
addressed to the Chairman by, the Director-General.

14. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
regulations made thereunder by the Minister, the Board shall
have the power to appoint such officers and servants as may
be necessary for the discharge of its functions.

Appointment of
the Director-
General of the
Board.

Staff of the Board.


Appointment of
public officers to
the staff of the
Board.

12 National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(2) The appointment of the officers and servants of the
Board shall be made by the Board in accordance with the
schemes of recruitment and procedures for appointment
prescribed by regulations made in that behalf.

(3) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any regulations
made by the Minister, the Board shall determine the terms
and conditions of service of the officers and servants of the

‘Board, including salaries or other remuneration.

(4) Disciplinary control of the officers and servants of the
Board including the power of dismissal, shall be exercised by
the Director-General subject to supervision and approval by
the Board.

(S) The Board may make rules in regard to any matter
including the disciplinary control of the officers and servants
of the Board.

(6) The Board may establish and regulate provident funds
and schemes for the benefit of the officers and servants of the _
Board and may make contributions to any such fund or
scheme.

15. (1) At the request of the Board, any officer_in the
public service may, with the consent of such officer and the
Secretaries to the Minister and the Minister in charge of the
subject of Public Administration, be temporarily appointed
to the siaff of the Board for such period as may be determined

"by the Board, or may be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) At the request of the Board, any officer in any Local
Authority may, with the consent of such officer and the
Secretary to the Minister and the Minister in charge of the
subject of Provincial Councils be seconded to the Board for
such period as may be determined by the Board.

(3) Where any public officer is temporarily appointed to
the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection (2) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.
37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation,
to him. |


National Library and Documentation 13
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(4) Where any public officer is permanently appointed to
the staff of the Board, the provisions of subsection (3) of
section 14 of the National Transport Commission Act, No.
37 of 1991, shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to, and in relation,
to him.

16. Where the Board employs any person who has
entered into a contract with the Government by which he has
agreed to serve the Government for a specified period, any
period of service to the Board by that person shall be regarded
as service to the Government for the purpose of discharging
the obligations of such contract.

17. (1) The Board may delegate to the Director-General
any of its powers, duties or functions.

(2) The Director-General to whom any power, duty or
function has been delegated under subsection (1) shall
exercise, perform and discharge such power, duty or function
Subject to the directions of the Board.

18. The seal of the Board—

(a) shall be in the custody of such persons as the Board
may, from time to time, determine;

(5) may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Board ; and

(c) shall not be affixed to any instrument whatsoever
except with the authority of the Board and in the
presence of a member of the Board and the Director-
General who shall sign their names on the instrument
in token of their presence: such signing shall be
independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

Service to the
Board deemed to
be service to the
Government for
the purpose of
certain contracts.

Delegation of
powers of the
Board to the
Director-General.

Seal of the Board.


Initial Capital of
the Board.

Fund of the
Board.

14 National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

PART IV
FINANCE

19, (1) The initial capital of the Board shall consist of
such sums as may be granted to the Board for the purpose by
a resolution of Parliament.

(2) The capital of the Board may be increased from time
to time, by such amounts as may be authorized by any
Appropriation Act, or by any resolution of Parliament.

20. (1) The Board shall have its own Fund, called the
National Library and Documentation Services Board Fund
(in this Act referred to as “the Fund”)

(2) There shall be credited to the Fund—

(a) allsuch sums of money as may be voted from time to
time by Parliament for the use of the Board;

(6) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Board in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, functions and duties under this Act ;

(c) all such sums of money as may be received by the
Byard by way of loans, donations, gifts or grants from
any source whatsoever, whether in or outside Sri
Lanka. ; and

(d) ail such sums of money as are transferred to the Fund
under subsection (1) of section 32.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Board—

(a) all such sums of money as are required to defray any
expenditure incurred by the Board in the exercise,
discharge and performance of its powers, duties and
functions under this Act ; and


National Library and Documentation 15
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(b) all such sums of money as are required to be paid out
of such Fund, by or under, this Act. ,

21. The financial year of the Board shall be the calendar
year,

22. The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
Shall apply in relation to the audit of the accounts of the Board.

PART V

GENERAL
23. (1) The Minister may, from time to time, give general
directions in writing to the Board as to the exercise of the
powers, and the performance of the duties of the Board, and

the Board shall give effect to such directions.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, order all or any

of the activities of the Board to be investigated and reported

upon by such person or persons as he may specify, and upon
such order being made, the Board shall afford all such facilities
and furnish all such information as may be necessary to carry
out such order.

2A, Any State land or State building may, subject to such
conditions as may be determined by the Minister with the
concurrence of the Minister for the time being in charge of
the subject of State Lands, be made available for the use of,
or be alienated to, the Board for any purpose of the Board
including the use by any officer or servant of the Board, as a
residence.

25. The Board shall, before the expiry of a period of six
months after the closure of each financial year of the Board,
transmit a report giving a full account of the activities of the
Board during that year to the Minister who shall cause copies
thereof to be tabled in Parliament.

Financial year of
the Board.

Audit of
Accounts.

Powers of
Minister in
relation to the
Board.

State land or
building to be
made available to
the Board.

Board to submit
Annual report of
its activities.


Board deemed to
be a scheduled
institution within
the meaning of the
Bribery Act.

Members, officers
and servants of
the Board deemed
to be public
servants.

Protection of
action taken under
this Act.

Regulations.

16 | National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

26. The Board shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act.

27. All members, officers and servants of the Board shall
be deemed to be public servants within the meaning, and for
the purposes, of the Penal Code.

28. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie :—

(a) against the Board for any act which in good faith is
done or purported to be done by it under this Act ;

(b) against a member, officer, servant or agent of the
Board for any act which in good faith is done or
purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by any person referred to in
subsection (1), in respect of any suit or prosecution brought
against him before any court in respect of any act which 1s
done by him under this Act or on the direction of the Board,
shall, if the court holds that the act was done in good faith, be
paid out of the Fund of the Board.

29. (1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
all or any of the following matters :—.

—@) the schemes of recruitment and procedures for
appointment of officers and servants of the Board ;

(6) the terms and conditions of service of officers ne
servants of the Board, including wages, salaries an
_ other remuneration ;

(c) provident funds and schemes for the benefit of officers
and servants of the Board.


National Library and Documentation 17
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on the
date of such publication or on such later date as may.be
specified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation shall, as soon as convenient after its
publication in the Gazette, be brought before Parliament for
approval. Any regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of its disapproval
but without prejudice to any thing done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation made
by the Minister is so deemed to be rescinded, shall be
published in the Gazette.

30. Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Board may
make rules for, and in respect of, all or any of the following
matters: —

(a) administration of the affairs of the Board, including
the conduct of the affairs of the National Library and

Documentation Centre established under this Act, the -

Committees appointed by the Board and of any other
library or documentation centre which may, from time
to time, be established under this Act;

(b) the programmes and schemes, annual budget, report
and accounts of the Board and the manner in which
such programmes and schemes, annual budget, report
and accounts are to be presented;

(c) the conduct of the business of the committees
appointed under section 7; and

(d) such other matters in respect of which rules are
. authorized by this Act to be made.

Board Rules.


Repeal of Act No.

17 of 1970.

Transitional
Provisions.

18 National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

PART VI
REPEAL AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
31. The Ceylon National Library Services Board Act,

No. 17 of 1970, is repealed with effect from the appointed
date.

32. (1) Any monies remaining in the Fund established
under section 16 of such repealed Act, on the day preceding
the appointed date shall be transferred with effect from the

“appointed date, to the Fund of the Board established under

section 20 of this Act.

(2) All officers and other employees in the service of the
Ceylon National Library Services Board established by such
repealed Act on the day immediately preceding the appointed
date, who have not reached their respective ages of retirement
shall with their consent, be employed by the Board with effect
from the appointed date on the same terms, including terms
relating to salaries or wages, the termination of employment,
allowances or other benefits as they had or enjoyed in the
service’ of the Ceylon National Library Services Board
established under the repealed Act:

Provided that the preceding provisions of this section shall
not apply in the case of an officer or employee who, on or
before the appointed date, accepts and is appointed to a post
in, the public service or any Provincial Public Service or a
local authority.

(3) All debts, obligations and liabilities incurred and all
contracts, deeds, bonds, agreements and other instruments
executed or entered into, and all matters and things engaged
to be done by, with or for the Board established under the
repealed Act prior to the appointed date shall, with effect from
the appointed date, be deemed to have been incurred, executed,
entered into or engaged to be done by, with or for the Board
established under this Act.


National Library and Documentation 19
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

(4) (a) All suits, prosecutions, appeals or other legal
proceedings civil and criminal, which have been instituted in
any court or tribunal by or against the Board established under
the repealed Act prior to the appointed date and pending on
that date shall be deemed to have been instituted by or against
the Board established by this Act, and may be continued
accordingly.

(6) All decrees or orders made by a competent court or
tribunal in favour of or against, the Board established under
the repealed Act prior to the appointed date, and remaining
unsatisfied on that date, shall be deemed to have been made
in favour of or against, the Board established under this Act
and may be enforced accordingly.

(c) The moneys lying in the Provident Fund of the Board
established under the repealed Act together with the interest
accrued thereon as at the appointed date, shall be transferred
to the Provident Fund established under this Act, and every
contributor to the Provident Fund established under the
repealed Act on the day immediately preceding the appointed
date shall be deemed to be a contributor to the Provident Fund
established under this Act.

(d) All property, movable or immovable, which is vested
in, or legally purchased or acquired by, or leased to, or placed
at the disposal of, or in any other manner transferred to the
Board established under the repealed Act, or in its possession,
or control on the day preceding the appointed date, shall vest
in the Board established by this Act, on the terms and
conditions appertaining, attaching or applicable thereto at
that date.

33. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala -
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsist-

. ency.


_ 20 National Library and Documentation
Services Board Act, No. 51 af 1998

Interpretation. 34. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Board appointed
under this Act;

“Library and Documentation Materials” mean any form,
whether written, printed, graphic, electronic,
magnetic, optical or otherwise, in or on which
information or literary, creative or artistic ideas, are
or may be recorded, displayed, stored or reproduced,
and include manuscripts, typescripts, books,
newspapers, periodicals, maps, microforms, music,
photographs, prints, drawings, cinematograph films,
sound recordings and video recordings and the
expressions “Library and Documentation resources”
and “Library and Documentation services” shall be
construed accordingly ;

“Local Authority” means a Municipal Council constituted
under the Municipal Councils Ordinance (Chapter
252), Urban Council constituted under the Urban
Councils Ordinance (Chapter 255) or a Pradeshiya

_ Sabha constituted under the Pradeshiya Sabhas Act,
No. 15 of 1987 and includes any authority created
and established by or under any written law to
exercise, perform or discharge powers, duties and
functions corresponding to or similar to the powers,
duties and functions exercised, performed or
discharged by any such Council or Sabha;

“Minister” means the Minister appointed under Article 44
of the Constitution, to whom the subject of Education
is assigned;

“National Library and Documentation Centre” means the
National Library and Documentation Centre
established under this Act;


National Library and Documentation 21
Services Board Act, No. 51 of 1998

“Provincial Council” means a Provincial Council
established by Chapter XVIIA of the
Constitution ; and

“Repealed Act” means the Ceylon National Library
Services Board Act, No. 17 of 1970.


ee ee

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),

payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS House,
Lotus Roan, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in cespect of the year following.
