PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

VALUE ADDED TAX (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 11 OF 2015

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th October, 2015]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 18.00Postage : Rs. 70.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 30, 2015

1Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

Short title andthe date ofoperation.

2PL 0092292950 (09/2015)

[Certified on 30th October, 2015]

L.D.O. 16/2015

AN ACT TO AMEND THE VALUE ADDED TAX ACT, NO. 14 OF 2002

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:-

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Value Added Tax(Amendment) Act, No. 11 of 2015 and subject to subsection(2) of this section, shall be deemed to have come intooperation on January 1, 2015 unless the date on whichcertain provisions shall come into operation are specified insuch sections.

(2) The amendments made to section 17, 19, 21, 25A(5),26, 28, 34, 41, 44, 47 and 66 by this Act shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

2.Section 2 of the Value Added Tax Act, No.14 of 2002(hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in item (iii) of sub-paragraph (v) of subsection (1)of that section by the repeal of the words and figures(iii) for the period commencing on up to the wordsat zero per centum and the substitution thereforof the following:-

(iii)for the period commencing on November23, 2010 and ending on December 31, 2010and for any taxable period commencing onor after January 1, 2011, and ending onDecember 31, 2014, at the rate of twelveper centum (of which the tax fraction is3/28); and

Amendment ofsection 2 of theValue AddedTax Act, No.14of 2002.

2Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

(iv)for any taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2015 at the rate of eleven percentum (of which the tax fraction is 11/111),

on the value of such goods or services supplied, orgoods imported, other than the goods or serviceschargeable with tax at zero per centum; and

(2)by the repeal of item (vi) of sub-paragraph (e) ofsubsection (2) of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the following new sub-paragraph:-

(vi)any person registered under the provisionsof subsection (7) of section 22 of this Act,including any strategic developmentproject in terms of subsection (4) of section3 of the Strategic Development Project Act,No.14 of 2008, as is referred to in sub-paragraph (i) of paragraph (f) of Part II of theFirst Schedule where purchases are allowedto be made from persons registered forSimplified Value Added Tax Scheme,during the project implementation periodinsofar as such supplies are project relatedsupplies;.

(3)in sub-paragraph (e) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words such purposeand which are specified in the Order published inthe Gazette. of the words such purpose andpublished in the Gazette..

3. Section 3 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (f) of subsection (1) of that section, bythe repeal of the words (f) any person or partnershipup to the words Part II of the First Schedule. andthe substitution therefor of the following:-

(f)any person or a partnership having totalsupplies of goods for any consecutive period

Amendment ofsection 3 of theprincipalenactment.

3Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

of three months in any calendar year notless than rupees

(i)five hundred million, for any suchperiod of three months falling withinany period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2013, but ending on orbefore December 31, 2013;

(ii)two hundred and fifty million, for anysuch period of three months fallingwithin any period commencing on orafter January 1, 2014, but ending onor before December 31, 2014; and

(iii)one hundred million, for any suchperiod of three months falling withinany period commencing on or afterJanuary 1, 2015,

including the supplies under the precedingparagraphs of this section and any suppliesexempted under Part II of the First Schedule;.;

(2)in paragraph (i) of subsection (2) of that section, bythe substitution for the words for the purposes ofthis Act of the words the substitution for the wordsfor the purposes of this Act, including any businessin which any director of a company or partner of apartnership is a director or partner of such otherbusiness or businesses; and.

4.Section 5 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (10) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following new subsection:-

(10)For any period-

(a)prior to October 25, 2014, where any goodssupplied under a lease agreement issubsequently transferred to the lessee at the

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

4Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

termination of such agreement for aconsideration not exceeding ten per centumof the total consideration of the leaseagreement, such consideration shall bedeemed to be a lease rental recovered undersuch agreement, and where such considerationis more than ten per centum of the totalconsideration of the lease agreement, suchsupply shall be deemed to be a separatesupply.

(b)on or after October 25, 2014, where any goodssupplied under a lease agreement issubsequently transferred to the lessee at thetermination of such agreement for aconsideration, such consideration shall betreated as a lease rental obtained under suchlease agreement..

5.Section 7 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of sub-paragraph (vii) of paragraph(b) of subsection (1) of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the following new sub-paragraph:-

(vii)the provision of services to overseas buyers by agarment buying office registered with the TextileQuota Board established under the Textile QuotaBoard Act, No.33 of 1996 or the Simplified ValueAdded Tax Scheme, as the case may be, wherepayment for such service is received in foreigncurrency, through a bank in Sri Lanka in so far assuch services are identified by the Commissioner-General as being services essential for facilitatingthe export of garments to such overseas buyers..

6.Section 8 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of the first proviso to that section andthe substitution therefor of the following new proviso:-

Provided that, in the case of a registered person referredto in paragraph (f) of section 3 of this Act, the value of the

Amendment ofsection 7 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 8 of theprincipalenactment.

5Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

supply of goods exempted under this Act made by suchregistered person directly or on behalf of any other person,which is in excess of twenty five per centum of the value oftotal supply of goods of such registered person other thanthe value of the supply of-

(a)zero rated articles;

(b)locally produced fresh milk, and with effct fromNovember 1, 2015 locally grown fruits andvegetables or locally produced rice; and

(c)goods subject to Special Commodity Levy wherethe supply is made by the importer himself, shallnotwithstanding the provisions contained in theSpecial Commodity Levy Act, No. 48 of 2007,

be deemed to be treated as liable supplies of such registeredperson and chargeable to tax at the rate specified in section2 of this Act using the tax fraction on the tax inclusiveconsideration:.

7.Section 10 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) of that section

(i)in paragraph (iii), by the substitution forthe words and figures (iii) on or afterJanuary 1, 2013, carries on of the words andfigures (iii) on or after January 1, 2013, butprior to January 1, 2015 carries on.

(ii)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(iii), of the following new paragraph:-

(iv)on or after January 1, 2015 carries onor carries out any taxable activity in

Amendment ofsection 10 of theprincipalenactment.

6Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

Sri Lanka shall be required to beregistered under this Act, if-

(a)at the end of any taxable periodof one month or three months, asthe case may be, the total valueof the taxable supplies of goodsor services or goods and servicesof such person, made in Sri Lankain that taxable period of onemonth or three months, as thecase may be, has three millionseven hundred and fifty thousandrupees; or

(b)in the twelve months period thenending, the total value of thetaxable supplies of goods orservices or goods and services ofsuch person, made in Sri Lankahas exceeded fifteen millionrupees; or

(c)at any time, there are reasonablegrounds to believe that the totalvalue of the taxable supplies ofgoods or services or goods andservices of such person inSri Lanka, in the succeeding onemonth or three months taxableperiod, as the case may be, islikely to exceed three millionseven hundred and fifty thousandrupees or in the succeedingtwelve months period is likely toexceed fifteen million rupees..

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words is not less than rupees two hundred

7Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

and fifty million. of the words and figures is notless than rupees-

(a)five hundred million for any such period ofthree months falling within any periodcommencing on or after January 1, 2013, butending on or before December 31, 2013;

(b)two hundred and fifty million for any suchperiod of three months falling within theperiod commencing on or after January 1,2014 but ending on or before December 31,2014; and

(c)one hundred million for any such period ofthree months commencing on or after January1, 2015..

8.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words protection of revenue, cancel hisregistration. of the words protection of revenue,cancel his registration or list such registration asan inactive registration for the purposes of this Actuntil further inquiries are made prior to suchcancellation..

(2)by the repeal of subsection (2A) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following newsubsection:-

(2A)Where the Commissioner-General-

(a)cancels any registration undersubsection (2), he shall cause a list ofnames and the registration numbers ofsuch registered persons to be published

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

8Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

in three daily newspapers in Sinhala,Tamil and English languages, having awide circulation; or

(b)decides such registration as inactive,shall publish the names and registrationnumbers of the persons whoseregistration has been decided asinactive in the official web site of theDepartment of Inland Revenue and thelist so published shall be updated onmonthly basis, notwithstanding theprovisions of section 73..

9.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words in writingwherever such words appear in subsection (2) of that sectionof the words in writing or by electronic means.

10.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, by the substitution for the words in writing ofthe words in writing or by electronic means.

11.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyamended, other than subsection (1) thereof by thesubstitution for the words in writing wherever such wordsappear, of the words in writing or by electronic means.

12.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)by the repeal of the first proviso to subsection (6)of that section and substitution therefor of thefollowing new proviso:-

Provided that, notwithstanding the provisionsof subsection (2), and the exemptions specified initem (i) and item (ii) of paragraph (f) of Part II of theFirst Schedule to this Act, any registered person

Amendment ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

9Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

who is engaged in supplying of goods or servicesto

(a)any special project as is referred to in item(ii) above where the payment is borne by theGovernment; or

(b)any strategic development project as isreferred to in item (i) above if such suppliesare project related supplies and are allowableto be claimed by the said StrategicDevelopment Project within the provisionsunder the Strategic Development Act, No. 14of 2008,

may be allowed to claim the input tax on thepurchase of goods or services connected to supplyof goods or services made to such projects:;

(2)in subsection (13) of that section, by thesubstitution for the words issued by the CentralBank for this purpose. of the words issued by theCentral Bank for this purpose and read with theguidelines issued and published in GazetteNotification by the Commissioner-General ofInland Revenue..

13.Section 25A of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows:-

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the words and figures the provisions of ChaptersI, II, III and item (xi) of the First Schedule to thisAct of the words and figures the provisions ofChapters I, II, III and item (x) of paragraph (b) ofPART II of the First Schedulr to this Act;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section,by the substitution for the words and figures on or

Amendment ofsection 25A ofthe principalenactment.

10Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

after January 1, 2013. of the words and figures onor after January 1, 2013 but prior to January1, 2015;or;

(3)by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat subsection the following new paragraph:-

(c)where the value of such supplies for a periodof three months exceeds three million sevenhundred and fifty thousand rupees or for aperiod of twelve months exceeds fifteenmillion rupees, as the case may be, if suchregistration has taken place for any periodon or after January 1, 2015.;

(4) in subsection (5) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

14.Section 25C of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section as follows:-

(1)in paragraph (c) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words twenty per centum; and of the wordstwenty per centum;;

(2)by the repeal of paragraph (d) of that subsectionand the substitution therefor of the following newparagraph:-

(d)commencing from January 1, 2011, but priorto January 1, 2015 shall be twelve percentum;; and

(3)by the addition immediately after paragraph (d) ofthat subsection, the following new paragraph:-

(e)commencing from January 1, 2015, shall beeleven per centum..

Amendment ofsection 25C ofthe principalenactment.

11Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

15.Section 25F of the principal enactment is herebyamended in paragraph (h) of that section as follows:-

(1)in sub-paragraph (b) of that paragraph by thesubstitution for the words twelve months as at thedate of such agreement of the words twelvemonths as at the date of such agreement, or;

(2)by the addition immediately after sub-paragraph(b) of that paragraph, the following new sub-paragraph:-

(c)of leasing facilities under any finance leaseagreement or operating leasing agreement onany asset other than any land or building, ifsuch agreement is entered into on or afterOctober 25, 2014 and not being an agreementfor re-schedule of any agreement entered intoprior to October 25, 2014..

16.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 25J of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 25K of that enactment:-

25K. The Minister may on therecommendation of the Commissioner-Generalof Inland Revenue make regulations for thepurpose of authorizing or facilitating the useof electronic communications or electronicrecords in respect of matters specified in section8 of the Electronic Transactions Act, No.19 of2006..

17.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution forthe words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

18.Section 28 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

Amendment ofsection 25F ofthe principalenactment.

Insertion of newsection 25K inthe principalenactment.

The use ofelectroniccommunicationsor electronicrecords.

Amendment ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 28 of theprincipalenactment.

12Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

19.Section 34 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (2) thereof by the substitution forthe words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

20.Section 41 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

21.Section 44 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof by the substitution forthe words in writing of the words in writing or byelectronic means.

22.Section 47 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words in writing ofthe words in writing or by electronic means.

23.Section 66 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the wordsin writing ofthe words in writing or by electronic means.

24.Section 83 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in the expression of the definition taxable periodas follows:-

(1)by the insertion immediately before paragraph (a)of the following:-

(1)for any period prior to April 1, 2011-; and

(2)by the addition immediately after paragraph (b), ofthe following:-

(2)for any period commencing on or after April1, 2011-

(a)a period of one month (other than in

Amendment ofsection 34 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 41 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 44 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 66 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 83 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 47 of theprincipalenactment.

13Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

respect of the specified institutionsreferred to in section 25B)

(i)where any person registered withthe Simplified Value Added TaxScheme and accorded RegisteredIdentified Purchaser status asspecified in the guidelines issuedand published in the Gazette bythe Commissioner-General forthat purpose referred to inparagraph (e) of subsection (2) ofsection 2;

(ii)where any person hascommenced a business or starteda project and undertakes tocomply with the requirements ofsubsection (7) of section 22 of theValue Added Tax Act, No.14 of2002 or subsection (6) of section22 of the Goods and Services TaxAct, No.34 of 1996;

(b)a period of three months commencingrespectively on the first day of January,the first day of April, the first day ofJuly and the first day of October of eachyear in respect of a registered personwho is not referred to in paragraph (a)or who has opted to submit quarterlyreturns on the approval by theCommissioner-General;.

25.The First Schedule of the principal enactment ishereby amended in PART II thereof as follows:-

(1)The Heading of PART II of the principal enactmentis hereby amended by the substitution for the words

Amendment ofPART II of theFirst Schedule tothe principalenactment.

14Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

and figures For any taxable period commencingon or after January 1, 2004,- of the words andfigures For any taxable period commencing on orafter January 1, 2004 (subject to effective datesspecified in subsequent amendments to theSchedule).;

(2)in paragraph (a) of that PART-

(a)by the repeal of item (viii) and thesubstitution therefor of the following:-

(viii)agricultural tractors or road tractors forsemi-trailers (with effect from the date onwhich this Act comes into operation);

(b)by the addition immediately after item (xxv)of the following new item:-

(xxvi) ethyl alcohol imported or manufacturedand supply as a by-product which is liableto customs duty and cess on importationor excise duty under the Excise DutyOrdinance on manufacturing of suchproducts.;

(3)in paragraph (b) of that PART-

(a)in sub-item (ii) of item (A) of sub-paragraph(b) of item (ii) of that paragraph by thesubstitution for the words and figures on orafter April 1, 2012. of the words and figureson or after April 1, 2012, if such leaseagreement is entered into on or before October24, 2014.;

(b)in sub-item (iii) of item (A) of sub-paragraph(b) of item (ii) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words and figures on or

15Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

after January 1, 2013. of the words andfigures on or after January 1, 2013, if suchlease agreement is entered into on or beforeOctober 24, 2014;;

(c)in item (B) of sub-paragraph (b) of item (ii) ofthat paragraph, by the substitution for thewords and figures on or after January 1,2005; of the words and figures on or afterJanuary 1, 2005, if such agreement is enteredinto on or before October 24, 2014;;

(d)in item (C) of sub-paragraph (b) of item (ii) ofthat paragraph, by the substitution for thewords and figures paragraph (c)of the wordsand figures paragraph (c), if such agreementis entered into on or before October 24,2014.;

(e)in item (b) of sub-paragraph (h) of item (x) ofthat PART,

(i)by the substitution for the words dateof such agreement; of the words dateof such agreement; or and

(ii)by the addition immediately after subitem (b) of sub-paragraph (h) of item(x), the following new sub-item:-

(c)of leasing facilities under anyfinance lease agreement oroperating leasing agreement onany asset other than land orbuilding if such agreement isentered into on or after October25, 2014 not being an agreementfor re-schedule of any agreemententered into prior to October 25,2014;.

16Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

(f)in item (xi) of that paragraph, by thesubstitution for the words the project relatesexclusively to the aforesaid supply, lease orrental; of the words the project relatesexclusively or partially to the aforesaidsupply, lease or rental;;

(g)by the repeal of item (xiii) of that paragraphand the substitution therefor of the followingnew item:-

(xiii)imported-

(a)unprocessed timber logs, shipsor rattans; or

(b)any article subject to theSpecial Commodity Levyunder the Special CommodityLevy Act, No. 48 of 2007subject to the condition thatsuch articles are sold withoutany processing exceptadaptation for sale;;

(h)by the repeal of item (xxxi) of that paragraphand the substitution therefor of the followingnew item:-

(xxxi)telecommunication services liable tothe telecommunication levy underthe Telecommunication Levy Act,No.21 of 2011, and the servicesspecifically excluded from suchliability in the definition of theexpression telecommunicationservicesin that Act (effective fromJanuary 1, 2014);;

17Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

(i)by the addition immediately afteritem (l) of paragraph (b), of thefollowing new item:

(li) Locally manufactured coconutmilk (with effect from November1, 2015)..

(4)in paragraph (c) of that PART:-

(a)by the repeal of item (xxx) of that paragraphand the substitution therefor of the followingnew item:-

(xxx)samples in relation to a businessworth not more than rupees-

(a)twenty five thousand, on suchimports made prior to January1, 2015; and

(b)fifty thousand on such importsfor any period on or afterJanuary 1, 2015,

subject to such terms and conditions asspecified by the Director-General ofCustoms;; and

(b)by the addition immediately after item(xxxvii), of the following new item:-

(xxxviii)machinery, equipment or spareparts imported by Sri LankaPorts Authority to be usedexclusively within the ports ofthe Sri Lanka Ports Authority.

18Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

(5)by the addition immediately after paragraph (k) ofthat PART the following new paragraph:-

(l)with effect from October 25, 2014, the importor supply of -

(a) (i)any motor vehicle identified underthe Harmonized CommodityDescription and Coding Numbersfor custom purposes and liable to theExcise (Special Provisions) Dutyunder the Excise (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989 onthe importation of such vehicle orany motor vehicle liable to the sameduty on the manufacture of any suchvehicle;

(ii)any motor vehicle remain unsoldas at October 25, 2014, whichwould otherwise have been liable tothe same duty on the importation ormanufacture of the same, ifimported or manufactured afterOctober 25, 2014,

other than any vehicle supplied under afinancial leasing agreement entered into priorto October 25, 2014, which are disposed afterthe repossession of the same by the lessor onwhich input tax had been claimed;

(b)cigarettes identified under theHarmonized Commodity Descriptionand Coding System Numbers for custompurposes and liable to the Excise(Special Provisions) Duty under Excise(Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of1989 and cess under Sri Lanka Export

19Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

Development Act, No. 40 of 1979 onthe importation or manufacture of thesame including cigarettes in the stocksremain unsold as at October 25, 2014which would have been liable to thesame duty on the importation ormanufacture the same, if imported ormanufactured after October 25, 2014;or

(c)liquor identified under the HarmonizedCommodity Description and CodingSystem Numbers for custom purposesand subject to the Customs Duty andcess on the importation or Excise Dutyon manufacture of the same includingliquor imported or manufactured priorto October 25, 2014 remain unsoldas at October 25, 2014 which wouldhave been liable to the same duty andcess on importation or Excise Dutyon manufacture of the same, ifimported or manufactured afterOctober 25, 2014..

26.The Amendment introduced to the principalenactment by section 13 of the Value Added Tax(Amendment ) Act, No.7 of 2014 is hereby amended by thesubstitution of paragraph (c) of that section of the followingnew paragraph:-

(c)by the substitution for the words Senior Assessorwherever such words occur in the principalenactment, of the words Deputy Commissioner orSenior Deputy Commissioner.

27.Any person who is authorized to collect the ValueAdded Tax as provided for in this Act during the periodcommencing from January 1, 2015 and ending on the date

Amendment ofsection 13 of theValue AddedTax(Amendment)Act, No.7 of2014.

Validation.

20Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

on which the Certificate of the Speaker is endorsed in respectof this Act, shall be deemed to have acted with due authorityand such collection shall be deemed to have been, and to be,validly made and such person is hereby indemnified againstall actions civil or criminal, in respect of such collection:

Provided that, the aforesaid provisions shall not affectany decision or Order made by any Court or any proceedingspending in any Court in respect of any tax collected asprovided for in this Act during the said period.

28.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

21Value Added Tax (Amendment)Act, No. 11 of 2015

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.