PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

BETTING AND GAMING LEVY (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No.7 OF 2001

[Certified on 11th April, 2001)

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of April 12, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs. 4.50 ae Postage : Rs. 3.50


Betting and Gaming Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2001

[Certified on 11th April, 2001)
L. D.—O. 21/2001.

An ACT TO AMEND THE BETTING AND GAMING Levy Act, No. 40
OF 1988 AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Betting and Gaming Levy
(Amendment) Act, No. 7 of 2001.

2. Section 2 of the Betting and Gaming Levy Act, No.
40 of 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that
section, by the substitution for the words “at the respective
rates set out in the Schedule to this Act”, of the words
“equivalent to the respective amounts set out in the Schedule
to this Act”.

3. Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the
substitution therefor of the following subsections :—

“(3) Where any instalment of the levy is in default
and —

(a) the default is in respect of an instalment
payable in any year commencing on or after
April 1, 1988 but prior to April 1, 2001, the

in default, pay as penalty—

(i) a sum equivalent to ten per centum of
the instalment in default ; and

(ii) where the instalment in default is not
paid before the fifteenth day of the
month succeeding the month in which
such #fStalment had begun to be in

2—H 011624—5,550 (2001/04)

Short title.

Amendment of
section 2 of Act
No. 40 of 1988.

Amendment of
section 4 of the
principal
enactment.


2 Betting and Gaming Levy (Amendment)
Act, No. 7 of 2001

default, a further sum equivalent to two
per centum of the instalment in default
in respect of each period ending on the
fifteenth day of each succeeding month
or part of such period, during which it
is in default :

provided however, that the total amount payable
as penalty under this paragraph shall, in no case
exceed fifty per centum of the instalment in
default ; and

(b) the default is in respect of an instalment
payable in any year commencing on or after
April 1, 2001, the defaulter shall in addition
to the instalment in default, pay as penalty, a
further sum equivalent to thirty three and one
third per centum of the instalment in default,
in respect of each period ending on the
fifteenth day of each month, succeeding the
month in which the instalment had begun to
be in default or part of such period during
which the instalment is in default :

Provided however, that the total amount
payable as penalty under this paragraph, shall
in no case exceed one hundred per centum of
the instalment in default.

(3a) The Commissioner-General may reduce
or waive any penalty payable under subsection (3),
if the Commissioner - General is satisfied that by
reason of any special circumstances in which the
default occurred, a reduction or waiver of such
penalty would be just and equitable.”.

Amendment of 4. Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amended
section 5 of the in paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of that section, by the
principal P . 8) P y

enactment. substitution for the words and figures “by or under section

43” of the words and figures “by or under section 42 or
section 44%


Betting and Gaming Levy (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 7 of 2001

5. The Schedule to the principal cnactment is hereby
repealed and the following Schedule substituted therefor :-—

“SCHEDULE (Section 2)

Part I

The amount of the levy payable by a person carrying on
the business of bookmaker for every year specified in Column
I hereto, shall be equivalent to the amount specified in the
corresponding entry in Cotumn II hereto —

Column I Column II
Year Amount of Levy

Forevery year commencing on
or after April 1, 1988, but prior to

April |, 2001. sn vee One hundred thousand rupees.
For every year commencing on or
after April !, 2001. ... Le One million rupees.

Part II

The amount of the levy payable by a person carrying on
the business of gaming for every year specified in Column I
hereto, shall be equivalent to the amount specified in the
corresponding entry in Column II hereto —

Column I Coiumn It
Year Amount of Levy

For every year commencing on or
after April 1, 1988, but prior to
April 1, 2001. Lee _ One million rupees

For every year commencing on or
after April 1, 2001. ... Lee Twenty five million rupees.”.

6. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
ae

Replacement of
the Schedule to
the principal
enactment.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1, {80(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurEAU, No. 32, TRaNsworks House,
Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before J5th December each year in respect of the year following.
