Nod noccossoese

eveerr hi :
{2FEBR 5)
f

Debt Conciliation (Amendment)
Act, No. 5 of 1959

Date of Assent : February 9, 1959

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GovERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post Orrice Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents. Postage: 10 cents.


Debt Conciliation, (Amendment) Act, 3
No. 5 of 1959

L. D.—0; 25/57:

An Act TO AMEND THE DEBT CONCILIATION
OrDINANCE, No. 39 oF 1941.

[Date of Assent: February 9, 1959. |

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this pre-
sent Parliament assembled, and by the authority of
the same, as follows:— :

1. This Act may be cited as the Debt Conciliation
(Amendment) Act, No. 5 of 1959. '

2. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 19, and shall have effect
as section 19a and section 198, of the Debt Concilia-
tion Ordinance, No. 39 of 1941, hereinafter referred
to as the principal enactment :— |

aur peiicatione 19a. (1) The Board shall not entertain
pect, of : é :
debts purporting Any application by a debtor or creditor
Oy eonditaal 20 respect of a debt purporting to be
transfers of secured by any such conditional transfer
unoyenle of immovable property as is a mortgage
property. : . : ‘ 3
within the meaning of this Ordinance
unless that application is made at least
thirty days before the expiry of the
period within which that property may
be redeemed by the debtor by virtue of
any legally enforceable agreement
between him and his creditor.

(2) Where the Board entertains an
application of a debtor in respect of such
a debt as is referred to in sub-section (1),
the Board shall cause notice of that fact
signed by the Secretary to be sent
together with a copy of the application
by registered post to the creditor to
whom the application relates.

Prohibition of 198. (1) Where a creditor receives a
the sale,

alienation, ete., | Notice under sub-section (2) of section 19a
of any immov- relating to an application of a debtor of
to which an” “his in respect of such a debt as is referred
opp ication sg tO in sub-section (1) of that section, he
the Board in Shall not sell, alienate, transfer, lease or
respect of a mortgage the property to which such
to in section 4 notice relates unless such application

10a relates. is dismissed by the Board or unless the
1*——J. N. R 86765—345 (11/58)

Short -title.:

Insertion of
new sections
19a and 19s in
Ordinance

No. 89 of 1941.


Insertion of
new section
21a in the
principal

enactment. -

4 Debt Concikiation (Amendment) Act,
No. & of 1959

settlement effected under this Ordinance
In respect of such debt permits him to
dispose of such property.

(2) Any sale, alienation, transfer,
lease, or mortgage effected in contraven-
tion of sub-section (1) shall be null and
void.’’.

8. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 21, and shall have effect as
section 21a, of the principal enactment :—

ce eters t0 De 21a. In any proceedings under this
deciding whether Ordinance in regard to an application
or net a. relating to a conditional transfer of
transfer of immovable property, the Board shall, for
immovable the purpose of deciding whether or not
ality a such transfer is in reality a mortgage,
mortgage. = take into consideration all the circum-

stances of the case and in particular the
following matters :— :

(2) the language of the notarial
instrument of transfer and,
where provision in regard to
the right of the transferor to
redeem the property transferred
is contained in any other
notarial instrument, the lan-
guage of that other instrument;

(6) any difference between the sum
received by the transferor from
the transferee and the value of
the property transferred;

(c) the continuance of the transferor’s
possession of the property
transferred; and

(dz) the existence of a legally enforce-
able agreement between the
transferor and the transferee.
whereby the transferor is bound
to pay the transferee interest,
or any sum which may reason-
ably be considered to _ be
interest, on the sum received by
the transferor from the trans-
feree.”’. :


Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act, 5
No. 5 of 1959

4. Section 64 of the principal enactment (as
amended by Ordinance No. 40 of 1941) is hereby
amended as follows :—

(a) by the omission of the definition of ‘‘ agricul-
tural property ”’;

(b) by the insertion, immediately after the
definition of ‘‘ Branch Board ’’, of the
following new definition : —

¢ ee

conditional transfer of immovable
property ’’ means any transfer, sale or
alienation of immovable property which
is effected by a notarial instrument and
which, by virtue of such instrument or
any other notarial instrument, is subject
to the right of the person by whom such
property was transferred, sold or
alienated to redeem such property within
a period specified in such instrument or
such other instrument; ’ ;

(c) in the definition of “‘ creditor ’’, by the sub-
stitution, for the words ‘‘ is owing,’’, of
the words ‘‘is owing and includes the
heirs, executors and administrators of such
person,’’ ;

(2) in the definition of ‘‘ debtor ’’—

(i) by the substitution, in clause (i) of that
definition, for the words ‘an
agricultural property’’, of the
words “‘ any immovable property ’’;

_ (ii) by the substitution, in clause (ii) of
that definition, for the semi-colon
occurring at the end of that clause,
of a comma; and

(iii) by the addition, at the end of that
definition, of the following :—
*“ and includes the heirs, execu-
tors and administrators of such
person;’’; and

(e) by the insertion, immediately after the
definition of ‘‘ debtor ’’, of the following
new definition :—

‘ ** mortgage ’’, with reference to any
immovable property, includes any condi-
tional transfer of such property which,

1——J.. N. RB 26765—2,554 (11/58)

Amendment of
section 64 of
the principal
enactment.


6

Debt Conciliation (Amendment) Act,
No. 5 of 1959

having regard to-all the circumstances of
the case, is in reality intended to be security
for the repayment to the transferee of a
sum lent by him to the transferor; ’.
