PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

LOCAL AUTHORITIES (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, NO. 21 OF 2012

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 15th November, 2012]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 5.00Postage : Rs. 15.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 16, 2012

1 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

2PL 005296 4,090 (10/2010)

Short title andthe applicability.

[Certified on 15th November, 2012]

L.D.O. 19/2008.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE MUNICIPAL COUNCILS ORDINANCE, THE URBANCOUNCILS ORDINANCE AND THE PRADESHIYA SHABHA ACT,NO. 15 OF 1987.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Local Authorities(Special Provisions) Act, No. 21 of 2012 and shall come intooperation on such date as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(2) The provisions of sections 5, 9 and 13 of this Act shallbe applicable to the election of a Mayor of a MunicipalCouncil or a Chairman of an Urban Council or PradeshiyaSabha, as the case may be, where such election is being heldin terms of the provisions of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Chapter 262) as amended by Act, No. 21 of 2012.

PART I

AMENDMENTS TO THE MUNICIPAL COUNCILS ORDINANCE(CHAPTER 252)

2.Section 5 of the Municipal Councils Ordinance(Chapter 252) (hereinafter in this Part referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby repealed and the followingsection is substituted therefor :

5.(1) Each Municipal Council shallconsist of :

(a)such number of elected Councillors asdetermined by the Minister by Ordermade under section 3c of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance (Cap.262); and

Replacement ofsection 5 ofChapter 252.

Compositionof MunicipalCouncils.

2 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

(b)such number of other Councillors notexceeding thirty per centum of the totalnumber of elected Councillors asdetermined by the Minister by Ordermade under section 3C of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance(Cap. 262), to be returned as Councillorsunder section 65A of that Ordinance, torepresent those electors who have notsecured any representation in theCouncil, at the election held for theelection of Councillors.

(2) Where the number constituting thirtyper centum referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) is an integer and fraction, theinteger shall be deemed to be the numberwhich shall constitute such thirty per centum,for the purpose of that subsection..

3.Section 13 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from with the provisions of the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance, to the end of thatsubsection, and the substitution therefore of the words withthe provisions of section 66A of the Local AuthoritiesElections Ordinance (Cap. 262), and the person so electedshall hold office as a Councillor, until the next succeedinggeneral election of Councillors of that Council..

4.Section 14 of the principal enactment as amended byLaw No. 24 of 1977, is hereby further amended as follows:

(1)by the repeal of paragraph (b) of subsection (2) ofthat section, and the substitution therefor of thefollowing paragraph:

(b)a Mayor or Deputy Mayor who resigns orvacates his office, shall however continue tobe a Councillor.; and

Amendment ofsection 13 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 14 of theprincipalenactment.

3 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

(2)by the repeal of subsection (7) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the followingsubsection:

(7) Whenever the office of Mayor of a MunicipalCouncil falls vacant, notice of such vacancy shallforthwith be given by the Commissioner to theCommissioner of Local Government and theCommissioner of Local Government shallthereupon proceed to fill such vacancy in themanner provided for the same in the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance (Cap. 262)..

5.Section 26 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (3) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(3)A Councillor other than the Mayor shall not beeligible for election to

(a)any two Standing Committees, until every otherCouncillor has been elected to serve on at leasttwo Standing Committees;

(b)any three Standing Committees, until everyother Councillor has been elected to serve on atleast one Standing Committee:

Provided that, in any event a Councillor shallnot be eligible to be elected to more than threeStanding Committees..

6.Section 189 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of section 189 and the substitutiontherefor of the following:

189. All cheques and orders for the paymentof moneys out of the Municipal Fund shall besigned by two officers authorized by theCouncil other than the Mayor and the Bank in

Replacement ofsection 189 ofthe principalenactment.

Cheques,Orders &c.for paymentout of theMunicipalFund.

Replacement ofsubsection (3) ofsection 26 of theprincipalenactment.

4 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

which the Municipal Fund is established maypay all cheques or orders out of the said Fundwhich are so signed..

7.Section 215A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words the Council. ofthe following:

the Council:

Provided that, if the Council according to section 214and 215 of this Ordinance modifies or rejects all or anyitems in any budget or supplementary budget or adds anyitem thereto which was submitted to the Council at any timeby the Mayor after a period of two years since thecommencement of the term of office of the Council, and ifthe Mayor does not agree to such decision of the Council,he shall resubmit the said budget to the Council for furtherconsideration. Where a budget or supplementary budget isnot passed by the Council within two weeks after it isresubmitted for the second time, the Mayor shall be deemedto have resigned from the office of Mayor at the end of thesaid period of two weeks..

PART II

AMENDMENTS TO THE URBAN COUNCILS ORDINANCE (CHAPTER 255)

8.Section 5 of the Urban Councils Ordinance (Chapter255) (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby repealed and the following section issubstituted therefor:

5. (1) Each Urban Council shall consist of:

(a)such number of elected Councillorsas determined by the Minister byOrder made under section 3C of theLocal Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Cap. 262) ; and

Amendment ofsection 215A ofthe principalenactment.

Compositionof UrbanCouncils.

Replacement ofsection 5 ofChapter 255.

5 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

(b)such number of other Councillors notexceeding thirty per centum of thetotal number of elected Councillorsas determined by the Minister byOrder made under section 3C ofthe Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Cap. 262), to be returnedas Councillors under section 65A ofthat Ordinance, to represent thoseelectors who have not secured anyrepresentation in the Council, at theelection held for the election ofCouncillors.

(2) Where the number constituting thirtyper centum referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) is an integer and fraction, theinteger shall be deemed to be the numberwhich shall constitute such thirty per centum,for the purpose of that subsection..

9.Section 12 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (3) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words the provisions of written law for the timebeing applicable in that behalf, of the words the provisionsof section 66A of the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance(Cap. 262).

10.Section 19 of the principal enactment as amendedby Law No. 24 of 1977, is hereby further amended asfollows:

(1)in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words in accordance with the provisions ofwritten law for the time being applicable in thatbehalf., of the words in accordance with theprovisions of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Cap. 262).;

(2)in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitutionfor all the words from the words vacates suchoffice., to the end of that subsection, of the words

Amendment ofsection 12 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

6 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

vacates such office. A Chairman or Vice-Chairmanwho resigns or vacates his office shall howevercontinue to be a member of the Council.; and

(3)by the repeal of subsection (7) of that sectionand the substitution therefor of the followingsubsection :

(7) Whenever the office of Chairman of anUrban Council falls vacant, notice of such vacancyshall forthwith be given by the Secretary of theCouncil to the Commissioner of Local Governmentand the Commissioner of Local Government shallthereupon proceed to fill such vacancy in themanner provided for the same in the LocalAuthorities Elections Ordinance (Cap 262)..

11.Section 159 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the following:

(2) All cheques or orders for payment of moneysout of the Urban Council Local Funds shall, subjectto the approval of the Commissioner be signed bytwo officers other than the Chairman of the Council,specially authorized by the Council for that purposeand the Bank in which the fund is established maypay all cheques or orders out of the said funds whichare so signed..

12.Section 178A of the principal enactment as amendedby the Local Authorities Elections (Special Provisions) LawNo. 24 of 1977 is hereby further amended by the substitutionfor the words supplementary budget of the Council of thefolowing:

supplementary budget of the Council:

Provided that, if the Council according to sections178 and 178A of this ordinance modifies or rejects all or anyitems in any budget or supplementary budget or adds any

Amendment ofsection 178A ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 159 ofthe principalenactment.

7 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

item thereto which was submitted to the Council at any timeby the Chairman after a period of two years since thecommencement of the term of office of the Council, and ifthe Chairman does not agree to such decision of the Council,he shall resubmit the said budget to the Council for furtherconsideration. Where a budget or supplementary budget isnot passed by the Council within two weeks after it isresubmitte for the second time, the Chairman shall be deemedto have been resigned from the office of Chairman at the endof the said period of two weeks..

13.Section 184 of the principal enactment as amendedby Law No. 24 of 1977, is hereby further amended insubsection (3) of that section, by the substitution for thewords and the provisions of written law for the time beingapplicable in that behalf , of the words and the provisionsof the Local Authorities Elections Ordinance (Cap. 262).

14.Section 249 of the principal enactment as amendedby Law No. 24 of 1977, is hereby further amended in thedefinition of the expression Chairman and Vice Chairman,by the substitution for the words the provisions of writtenlaw for the time being applicable in that behalf;, of thewords the provisions of the Local Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Cap. 262);.

PART III

AMENDMENTS TO THE PRADESHIYA SABHA ACT, NO. 15 OF 1987

15.Section 4 of the Pradeshiya Sabha Act, No. 15 of1987 (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the principalenactment) is hereby repealed and the following section issubtituted therefore:

4. (1) A Pradeshiya Sabha constituted byan Order under subsection (1) of section 2,shall consist of:

(a)such number of elected membersas determined by the Minister

Amendment ofsection 249 ofthe principalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 184 ofthe principalenactment.

Compositionof PradeshiyaSabhas.

Amendment ofsection 4 of ActNo. 15 of 1987.

8 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

by Order made under section 3Cof the Local AuthoritiesElections Ordinanc ( Cap. 262);and

(b)such number of other membersnot exceeding thirty per centumof the total number of electedmembers as determinedunder paragraph (a), to bereturned as members under theLocal Authorities ElectionsOrdinance (Cap. 262), torepresent those electors whohave not secured anyrepresentation in the Sabha, atan election held for the electionof members .

(2) Where the number constituting thirtyper centum referred to in paragraph (b) ofsubsection (1) is an integer and fraction, theinteger shall be deemed to be the numberwhich shall constitute such thirty per centum,for the purpose of that subsection..

16.Section 133 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of that section and the substitutiontherefor of the folowing:

133. All cheques and orders for the paymentof moneys out of the Pradeshiya Sabha Fundshall subject to the approval of theCommissioner be signed by two officersauthorized by the Council other than theChairman of the Council and the Bank whichthe Pradeshiya Sabha Fund is establishedmay pay all cheques or orders out which are sosigned of the said Fund..

Cheques,Orders &c.for paymentout of thePradeshiyaSabha Fund.

Replacement ofsection 133 ofthe principalenactment.

9 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

Amendment ofsection 169 ofthe principalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

17.Section 169 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words budget of thePradeshiya Sabha of the folowing:

budget of the Pradeshiya Sabha:

Provided that, if the Council according to sections168 and 169 of this Act modifies or rejects all or any items inany budget or supplementary budget or adds any item theretowhich was submitted to the Council at any time by theChairman after a period of two years since thecommencement of the term of office of the Council, and ifthe Chairman does not agree to such decision of the Council,he shall resubmit the said budget to the Council for furtherconsideration. Where a budget or supplementary budget isnot passed by the Council within two weeks after it isresubmitted for the second time, the Chairman shall bedeemed to have resigned from the office of Chairman at theend of the said period of two weeks..

18.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

10 Local Authorities (Special Provisions)Act, No. 21 of 2012

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.