PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.75 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of September 08, 2006

[Certified on 5th September, 2006]

Printed on the Order of Government

SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT SCHEMEFOR MEDIA PERSONNELACT, No. 29 OF 2006

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 20061

[Certified on 5th September, 2006]

L .D. O. 61/2005

AN ACT TO ESTABLISH AND MAINTAIN A SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT SCHEME

FOR MEDIA PERSONNEL; TO PROVIDE FOR THE OPERATION AND CONTROL

OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT SCHEME BY THE SOCIAL SECURITYBOARD; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Social Security BenefitScheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shallcome into operation on the date on which this Act is certifiedas an Act of Parliament and the other provisions shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint, byOrder published in the Gazette (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date).

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF A BENEFIT SCHEME FOR MEDIA PERSONNEL

2.There shall be established according to the provisionsof this Act, a scheme which shall be called the Social SecurityBenefit Scheme for Media Personnel (hereinafter referred toas the Benefit Scheme)

3.The object of the Benefit Scheme shall be, to grantbenefits by way of social security benefits to Media Personnelemployed in media organizations.

4. Notwithstanding the provisions of the EmployeesProvident Fund (Special Provisions) Law, No. 6 of 1975, anyperson who

(a)is a media person employed in a media organization;and is

Short titleand date ofoperation.

Establishment ofthe BenefitScheme forMedia Personnel.

Object of theBenefit Scheme.

Eligibility to jointhe BenefitScheme.

2Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

(i)a media person confirmed in such employmentin such organisation; or

(ii)a media person employed on contract in suchorganisation; or

(iii)a freelance media person employed in suchorganisation;

(b)is not less than eighteen years of age and not morethan fifty years of age; and

(c)is or is not as the case may be, a contributor to theEmployees Provident Fund, established under theEmployees Provident Fund Act, No. 15 of 1958,

shall be entitled to join the Benefit Scheme on a voluntarybasis:

Provided however, any media person who is not less thanfifty years of age and not more than fifty five years of age onthe date of commencement of this Act, shall, also be entitledto join the Benefit Scheme, notwithstanding the fact thatsuch person has not fulfilled the requirements of paragraph(b) of this section:

Provided further that, any media person who is a memberof , or who contributes to, any pension scheme establishedby any other written Law, shall not be entitled to join theBenefit Scheme established by section 2 of this Act.

5.(1) A media person who joins the Benefit Scheme(hereinafter referred to as the contributor) shall be entitledto periodic benefits in such amounts as may be calculated inthe manner prescribed.

(2) In prescribing the basis of calculation of the amountof the benefits payable, the period during which contributionswere made, the age of the contributor and the total amountcontributed by the contributor, shall be taken into account.

Benefits underthe BenefitScheme.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 20063

6.(1) A contributor shall be entitled to receive aprescribed amount of the benefits under the Benefit Schemeas calculated in the manner set out in section 5, in monthlyinstalments, upon reaching the age of sixty years and shallcontinue to receive such monthly benefits up to the end ofthe month in which the contributor dies.

(2) In the event of the death of a contributor who hascommenced receiving the monthly benefits under the BenefitScheme before he reaches eighty years of age

(a)where there is a surviving spouse

(i)who is not a beneficiary or contributor to anyother pension scheme or benefit scheme, suchspouse shall be entitled to receive the monthlybenefits in the same manner the deceasedcontributor would have received the same hadhe lived till he reaches eighty years of age;

(ii)who is a beneficiary or contributor to any otherpension scheme or benefit scheme, such spouseshall be entitled to receive such amount ofcontributions as remain unpaid out of the totalamount of contributions, together with interestthereon as determined by the Board taking intoconsideration the banking rates prevailing atthe relevant time; and

(b)where there is no surviving spouse

(i)if there is a child under twenty- one years ofage, such child; or

(ii)if there is more than one child under twenty-one years of age, each such child in equalproportions,

shall be entitled to receive the monthly benefitspayable to the spouse under subsection (2) (a) (i)above.

Whenbenefits arepayable.

4Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

(3) On the death or remarriage of the spouse, the monthlybenefits payable to such spouse under subsection (2) (a) (i)above shall cease to be paid and the child or children as thecase may be of the deceased contributor, who are under twenty-one years of age shall become entitled to receive the monthlybenefits payable to such spouse prior to the death or remarriageof the spouse.

(4) The monthly benefits payable to the child or childrenas the case may be of the contributor under subsection (3)shall cease on their marriage or on their attaining the age oftwenty-one years, whichever event occurs earlier:

Provided that where the child or children are certified bya duly constituted medical board to be permanently disabled,the benefits payable to such child or any of such children asthe case may be, shall cease only on the death of such childor children, as the case may be.

(5) Where a contributor who has commenced receivingthe monthly benefits dies before he reaches eighty years ofage with no surviving spouse or children under twenty- oneyears of age, the amount left unpaid from the total amount ofcontributions made by such contributor together with interestthereon as determined by the Board taking into considerationthe banking rates prevailing at the relevant time, shall bepaid to his immediate relatives by blood in such proportionand in such order of priority as is specified in Schedule Ihereto.

(6) In the event of the death of the contributor before hebecomes entitled to receive the benefits under the BenefitScheme, the total amount of contributions made by suchcontributor up to the date of his death shall be paid to hisimmediate blood relatives in such proportion and in suchorder of priority as is specified in Schedule II hereto.

7.The Minister may with a view to encouraging mediapersonnel to join the Benefit Scheme, in consultation withthe Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, prescribe byregulation a percentage which may be permitted as a rebateor a discount, as the case may be, on the contributions to bepaid by contributors.

Rebates oncontributions.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 20065

PART II

MANAGEMENT OF THE BENEFIT SCHEME

8.The Social Security Board established under theSocial Security Board Act, No. 17 of 1996 (hereafter referredto as the Board) shall be responsible for the operation andcontrol of the Benefit Scheme, established under section 2 ofthis Act.

9.(1) For the purpose of exercising and dischargingthe powers and functions conferred on it by this Act, theBoard shall have the power -

(a)to administer, manage and control the BenefitScheme;

(b)to maintain the required actuarial, financial andoperational reports in respect of the Benefit Scheme;

(c)to do all such other things as in the opinion of theBoard, are necessary for the proper discharge of itsfunctions or for the administration andimplementation of the Benefit Scheme.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Board to obtain therecommendations and observations of the Sri Lanka WorkingJournalists Association established under Sri Lanka WorkingJournalists (Incorporation) Act, No. 46 of 1987, with relationto the enrolment of contributors to the Benefit Scheme andon any other matter which it deems necessary.

10.The Board shall on enrolment of any person as acontributor to the Benefit Scheme, issue him with a BenefitScheme Policy, setting out the contribution to be made byhim, the terms and conditions of such Policy and the benefitsto which he is entitled in terms of the Policy issued to him.

Social SecurityBoard to operateand control theBenefit Scheme.

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Board.

The Board toissue Policy toeach contributor.

6Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

11.(1) The date before which contributions are payableby a contributor shall be specified in the Benefit SchemePolicy and any contributor who fails to pay ten consecutiveinstalments on or before such date shall forfeit the benefitsunder the Benefit Scheme Policy issued to him.

(2) Where any contributor has forfeited the benefits underthe Benefits Scheme Policy issued to him, the Board shallissue a notice to that effect to such contributor.

(3) A contributor shall have right to appeal to the Boardto validate his Benefit Scheme Policy and the Board shallvalidate such Policy if it is satisfied that the reasons for failureto pay the instalments were beyond the control of thecontributor.

(4) Where the Board on appeal, decides to validate aBenefit Scheme Policy, the contributor shall be informed ofthe date before which the arrears of instalments have to bepaid. The date of such payment shall be the operative date ofvalidation of such Policy.

(5) Any contributor aggrieved by the decision of theBoard, may appeal to the Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance whose decisionthereon, shall be final and conclusive.

12.No benefit payable under the Benefit Scheme shallbe assigned or transferred and every such assignment ortransfer shall be absolutely null and void. No such benefitshall be attached or taken in execution on account of anydebt or payment due from the person to whom such benefit ispayable.

Forfeiture ofBenefit SchemePolicy.

Benefit not to beassigned orlevied upon.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 20067

PART III

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFIT FUND FORMEDIA PERSONNEL

13.(1) There shall be established a Fund called theSocial Security Benefit Fund for Media Personnel (hereinafterreferred to as the Fund)

(2) The initial capital of the Fund shall be one hundredmillion rupees and shall be paid out of the ConsolidatedFund.

(3) The Board shall have the power to manage, controland operate the Fund.

(4) There shall be paid into the Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time by Parliament for the implementation of theBenefit Scheme;

(b)all sums of money paid as contributions to theBenefit Scheme by contributors;

(c)all sums of money earned as interest or profits frominvestments of the Board;

(d)all sums of money received by the Board by way ofdonations or otherwise, in the exercise, dischargeand performance of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act;

(e)all such sums of money received by the BenefitScheme by way of gifts, grants or donations fromany source whatsoever;

(f)all such sums of money that may be vested to theFund by any Government Department or PublicCorporation.

Social SecurityBenefit Fund forMedia Personnel.

8Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

(5) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums of moneyrequired to defray expenditure incurred by the Board in theexercise, discharge and performance of its powers, duties andfunctions under this Act.

14.All monies in the Fund which are not immediatelyrequired by the Board may be invested in such manner and insuch securities as may be authorized by the Minister with theconcurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject of Finance.

15.(1) The Board may with the concurrence of theMinister and the Minister in charge of the subject of Financeor in accordance with the terms of any authority given withlike concurrence, borrow by way of overdraft or otherwise ornegotiate and obtain on credit, such sums as the Board mayrequire for meeting the obligations of the Board and foradministering and implementing the Benefit Scheme:

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts outstandingin respect of the loans raised by the Board under thissubsection shall not at any time, exceed such sums as may bedetermined by the Minister with the concurrence of theMinister in charge of the subject of Finance.

(2) The Board may, with the consent of the Minister incharge of the subject of Finance, borrow money otherwisethan by way of loans under subsection (1), for all or any ofthe following purposes :

(a)the requisition or acquisition of any movable orimmovable property required for the use of theBoard;

(b)the repayment of any money borrowed undersubsection (1).

16.(1) The financial year of the Board shall be thecalendar year.

Investment ofmonies.

Borrowingpowers.

Financialyear andaudit ofaccounts ofthe Board.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 20069

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Board.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of accounts of the Board.

17.The Fund shall be deemed, for the purposes ofsection 34 (2) (b) (v) of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 10 of2006, to be a Fund established by the Government of SriLanka.

18.For the avoidance of doubts it is hereby declaredthat the provisions of the Finance Act, No. 38 of 1971 shallapply to the Board.

PART IV

GENERAL

19.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters which are stated or required by this Act to beprescribed or in respect of which regulations are required bythis Act to be made, including

(a)the regulation, administration and management ofthe Benefit Scheme;

(b)conditions governing the default of payment ofcontributions by contributors, surrender of policyand loss of eligibility of a contributor;

(c)the procedure for the transaction of business by theBoard; and

(d)the termination or forfeiture of the policy.

Application ofInland RevenueAct, No. 10 of2006 to theBoard.

Application ofAct, No. 38 of1971.

Regulations.

10 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient be published in the Gazette and shall comeinto operation on the date of such publication or on suchlater date as may be specified therein.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Every regulation which isnot so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from thedate of such disapproval, but without prejudice to the validityof anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation is sodeemed to be rescinded, shall be published in the Gazette.

20.(1) No suit or prosecution shall lie

(a)against the Board for any act which in good faith isdone or is purported to be done by the Board underthis Act ; or

(b)against any member of the Board or officer, servantor agent of the Board for any act which in good faithis done or purported to be done by him, under thisAct or on the direction of the Board.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Board in any suit orprosecution brought by or against the Board before any Courtshall be paid out of the Fund and any cost paid to or recoveredby the Board in any such suit shall be credited to such Fund.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is referredto in paragraph (b) of subsection (1) in any suit or posecutionbrought against him before any Court in respect of any actwhich is done or purported to be done by him under this Actor on the direction of the Board shall, if the Court holds thatsuch act was done in good faith, be paid out of Fund unlesssuch expense is recovered by him in such proceedings.

Protection foraction takenunder this Act,or on thedirection of theBoard.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 200611

21.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

22.For the purpose of this Act, unless the contextotherwise requires

media person means a person who being a journalistis engaged in the gathering of, preparation anddissemination of news andinformation andcomments on such news or information, throughany medium of communication inclusive of theprint and electronic media.

SCHEDULE ISection 6 (5)

The proportion in which the balance amount of contributions thatremains unpaid are payable when there is no surviving spouse or nolegitimate children under twenty one years of age shall be

(a)The surviving legitimate children above twenty-one years ofage in equal shares ;

(b)if there are no surviving legitimate children over twenty-oneyears of age,

(i)if there is more than one surviving parent, be paid to thesurviving parents, in equal proportions ;

(ii)if there is only one surviving parent, be paid to thatparent in its entirety ;

(iii)in the absence of parents, if there are more than onesurviving brothers and sisters be paid to the survivingbrothers and sisters, in equal proportions ;

(iv)if there is only one surviving brother or sister, be paid tothat brother or sister as the case may be, in its entirety.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofan inconsistency.

Interpretation.

12 Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media Personnel Act, No. 29 of 2006

SCHEDULE IISection 6 (6)

The proportion in which the total contributions made by the con-tributor are payable under subsection (6) of section 6, and the order ofpriority shall be

(a)if there is a surviving spouse and legitimate children-

(i)fifty per centum to the surviving spouse ; and

(ii)balance fifty per centum to be shared by the survivinglegitimate children of the deceased contributor, in equalproportions ;

(b)if there is no surviving spouse, it shall be shared in its entiretyand in equal proportions by the surviving legitimate childrenof the deceased ;

(c)if there is no surviving spouse or surviving legitimate chil-dren-

(i)if there is more than one surviving parent, be paid to thesurviving parents, in equal proportions ;

(ii)if there is only one surviving parent, be paid to thatparent, in its entirety ;

(iii)if there are no surviving parent and there are more thanone surviving brothers or sisters, be paid to the survivingbrothers and sisters, in equal proportions ;

(iv)if there is only one surviving brother or sister, be paid tothat brother or sister, in its entirety.

Social Security Benefit Scheme for Media PersonnelAct, No. 29 of 200613

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.