FF GRO? a™
y a “S
m “ =)
my: af im
gi Of \s
2 p”
yy a | ve
gt a:
an Boe J
PrN 8
s ee
ra ea
Doren 5 &

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

GRANT OF CITIZENSHIP TO STATELESS
PERSONS (SPECIAL PROVISIONS)

ACT, No. 39 OF 1988

omen ae sen me Pree = comme ae

- | {Certified on 11th November, 1988]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 11, 1988

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

ee
ed

; TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMaC.
Price : 75 cents | Postage : 75 cents



Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
c (Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

| [Certified on 11th November, 1988]
L.D—0.70/88 :

Aw ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE GRANT OF STATUS OF Sri LANKA
CITIZEN TO CERTAIN STATELFSS PERSONS OF INDIAN ORIGIN

WHEREAS the preamble to the Grant of Citizenship to
Stateless Persons Act, No. 5 of 1986, states that the
Government of India had agreed io grant Indian Citizen-
ship to 506,000 persons of Indian origin residing in Sri
Lanka, within six to eight months of the dates of enact-
ment of the said Act:

AND WHEREAS the Government of India has to date
granted Indian Citizenship to 422,000 of such persons who
have applied to the Indian High Commission for the grant
of Indian Citizenship and will be granting Indian Citizen-
ship to the balance 84,000 persons and accepting their
repatriation to India:

AND WHEREAS, under the Grant of Citizenship to
Stateless Persons Act, No. 5 of 1986, the Government of S11
Lanka is obliged to grant citizenship to 469,000 persons of
Indian origin, and also to any residue of stateless persons
of Indian origin in Sri Lanka: | .

AND WHEREAS, the Government of Sri Lanka has to date

granted Sri Lanka Citizenship to 236,000 persons of Indian.

origin and is obliged to grant citizenship to the remainder :

AND WHEREAS, it appears from the said Act that the
Government of Sri Lanka had resolved to solve the problem
of Statelessness within eighteen months of the enactment
of the Said Act: -

AND WHEREAS, due to various unforeseen circumstances,
the said obligations could not be fulfilled during the
aforesaid period : °

Now, therefore, be it enacted by the Parliament of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1: This Act may be cited as the Grant of Citizenship to
Stateless Persons (Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988.

Preamble.

Short
title.


2 Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

Grant or 2. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law
I1Zensnl

to certain P every person who—

Stateless — _

persons. - (a) is of Indian origin lawfully resident in Sri Lanka ;

(b) is stateless ; and .

(c) ‘is not within the 506,000 persons referred to in the
Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons Act, No. 5
of 1986, who have applied to the Indian High -
Commission for the Grant of Indian Citizenship,
and the children: | born to them after October 30,
1964,

shall have the status of Citizen of Sri Lanka with effect
from the date of the commencement of this Act and shall

_# be entitled to all the rights and privileges to which other
citizens of Sri Lanka are entitled to by law.

Srenuzo 3. (1) Every person who is a citizen of Sri Lanka by
Lah ™* reason of the operation of section 2—

become ie

citizens (a) shall be subject to the same abiizations and liabilities

os this in law as citizens of Sri Lanka, including the provi-

sions of law relating to the liability to loss or
; deprivation of citizenship, and the renunciation of
citizenship, in like manner and to the same extent

‘as other citizens of Sri Lanka ;

oa

(b) shall be deemed in law to have renounced all rights
to the civil and political status such person may
have had, or would but for this Act have had,
under any law in force in the territory of the
origin of such person or such person’s parent,
ancestor or husband, as the case may he ; and

(c) shall, in all matters relating to, or connected with,
status, personal rights and duties, and property in
Sri Lanka, be subject to the laws of Sri Lanka.

Certificate 4. (1) Any person who isa citizen of Sri Lanka hy
reason of the provision of section 2 of this Act may if he so
desires, apply to the Commissioner: for a Certificate of
Citizenship substantially in the form set out in Schedule A
to this Act and the Commissioner shall, subject to the
provisions of subsection (3) of this section, issue a certificate
within sixty days of the receipt of such application by him,
and such certificate shall be substantially in the Form set
out in Schedule B to this Act.

oO
Citizenship.


Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
“(Special-Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

'. 1(2)- Such application’ shall be accompanied by a declara-
: tion under gath or afirmation substantially in the form set
‘out in-Schedule ‘A to this Act. © :

t F

*="(5) In respect of persons born prior to October 30, 1964,
the Commissioner is empowered to issue certificates under
this Act only: to the balance of the 469 ,0U0 persons to whom
certificates have not been issued under the Indo-Ceylon
Agreement (Implementation) Act, No. 14 of 1967, on the
“date of’ corhmencement of this Act. He shall obtain the
“prior approval of ‘the Minister for the issue of a certificate
“under subsection — (i)” to any person in excess of this
number:

(4) No person ‘shall: require the prodution of a Certificate
referred to in subsection (1) for any purpose and an

affidavit shall be accepted as prima facie evidence of the

vfacts plated therein.

5. Any person who: knéwitigly makes a declaration
which is false with regard to any particular, required to be
stated in an application made under section 4, shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction
by a Magistrate after summary trial be liable to imprison-
ment not exceeding one year or toa fine not exceeding
rupees five thousand or to both such fine and imprisonment,
and the Magistrate shall, if he is satisfied that the Certificate
issued on the faith of such declaration would not have been
issued but for such false statement’ in such declaration,
make order cancelling: such: Certificate. -

6... dn this ‘Act 95

“wie Commissioner” means s the Commissioner for the
| ” Registration of Persons of Indian Origin appointed
under the Indo-Ceylon Agreement (Implementa-

tion) nth No. 14 of 1967.
1% D=-002749"(11/88)"’ bee

Offences.

Inter-_
pretation.


4 Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

SCHEDULE APC eoiges ¢ [Section 4]

Application for a ' Certificate of Citizenship under section 4 of
the Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons (Special Provisions)

Act, No. 39 of 1988

T, scale Borenactenre do hereby apply under section 4 of the Grant
of citizenship te Stateless persons (Special Provisions) Act,
No. 39 of 1988 for the issue of a Certificate of Citizenship.

; 2. I declare that I am a person of Indian Origin lawfully resident
in Sri Lanka and that I have not applied at any time to the Indian
High Commission for the grant of Indian Citizenship and that I
do not belong to the category of the 506,000 persons referred to
in the Grant of Citizenship to Stateless persons Act, No. 5 of 1926,
‘or their issue.

3. I am fully aware of the offences and the penalties referred to

in section 5 of the Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
(Special Frovisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988. .

4, I append hereto the particulars relating to myself in order
to enable the issue of the Certificate of Citizenship applied for,
- 5. Particulars :
(1) Full name and other names :
(In Block capitals) :———
(2) Father's — —_———-. .
@). Mother's name :——_——.
(4) Sex :———_. | |
(5) Indentity Card Number, if available :
- (6) Residential address :——_—_——-,

(7) Occupation and address at occupation ——.

(8) Date of birth : : |
(if date of birth is not given, state approx. year of birth) —

(9) Place of birth : ;
(if born outside ‘Sri Lanka state date of first arfivat
- °° in Sri Lanka).

4 0) Civil states :-—————. ,
{ married/single/widower/divoree living in ‘eeyieration) :


Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons = §
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

(11) Full name of spouse :

(12) If not born in Sri Lanka, addresses of residence and
employment/cccupation for the last twenty years:

(13) If applied for Sri Lanka Citizenship under the Indo- .
Ceylon Agreement, state address from which application
was made, and reference number assigned to it if
available :

DECLARATION

I do solemnly, sincerely and truly declare and affirm/swear
that the foregoing particulars stated in this application are true
and I make this statement conscientously believing the same to
be true. |

Signature or thumb impression of applicant.
Date :

Ailfirmed/Sworn at .... this day of .... 19 .. before me.

‘ewonee eoeeeeeene .

Signature of Justice of the Peace or
Commissioner of Oaths.

Name cf the Justice of the Peace or Commissioner of Oaths :—

ee

' SCHEDULE B [Section 4}
Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons (Special Provisions) Act

Certificate of Citizenship of Sri Lanka under section 4 of the
Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons (Special Provisions)
Act, No. 39 of 1988:

Whereas -viewis ¢ sess 1...» has duly applied to the Commissioner
for the Registration of Persons of Indian origin for a certificate of
citizenship as provided for by section 4 of the said-Act, alleging
with respect to himself (herself) the particulars set out below :—

Now therefore, in pursuancé of the powers conferred on him by
the said section 4, the Commissioner for Registration of Persons
of Indian origin certifies that the said.......... is a citizen of
Sri Lanka under the said section 2.

In witness whereof I have hereunto subscribed my name.

Commissioner for the Registration of Persons
of Indian Origin.
Date ————, i air ae ree cS td ae ce

Department for the Registration of Persons of Indian Origin,
«.Colomka,


Grant of Citizenship to Stateless Persons
(Special Provisions) Act, No. 39 of 1988

PARTICULARS RELATING TO APPLICANT
Name :—————)_. 4h . Big KE
Father’s name ;————-,
Address gilt
Trade or Occupation :

Place and Date-of Birth :

_ Sex :-—————,

Identity Card No:

Name of Wife/Husband :
