PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF |
SRI LANKA

NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSION (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 30 OF 1996

{certified on 12th November, 1996]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part JI of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 15, 1996

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU. COLOMBO |

Price : Rs. 1.05 Postage : Rs. 2.00


National Transport Commission (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 1996

[Certified on 12th November , 1996]

L.D—O. 54/95.
AN ACT TO AMEND THE NATIONAL TRANSPORT COMMISSION
Act, No. 37 of 1991
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the National Transport Com-
mission (Amendment) Act, No. 30 of 1996 and shall come
into Operation on such date as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette.

2. Section 26 of the National Transport Commission Act,
No. 37 of 1991 (hereinafter referred to as the “principal
enactment’) is hereby amended by the insertion, immediately

- after paragraph (c) of that section of the following para-

graph :—

“(cc) in the case of a permit granted to a company
referred to in section 463, the minimum
educational or professional qualifications to be
held by the Managing Director, Director
Finance, Director Operations and Director
I:ngineering of such company, such Te ing
being those prescribed by regulation ;’

i ‘The following sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section 46, and shall have effectas sections
46a, 46b, 46c, 46D, 46k, 46r, 46c and 46n respectively, of
the principal enactment :—

* Minister may 46a. Where the Minister considers it

issue directions expedient, having regard to the national

to amalgamate economy in general and the need to provide

peoplised adequate omnibus transport services to the

a a public in particular, that two or more of the
peoplised companies specified in the Second
Schedule to this Act should be amalgamated,
the Minister may forward a Memorandum and
Articles of Association to the Registrar of
Companies, together with a direction to such
Registrar to register a new company to carry
on the business activities carried on by the
peoplised companies referred to in such
direction.

2—D 041848 —7,355 (96/10)

Short title and
date of operation.

Amendment of
section 26 of Act
No. 37 of 199]

Insertion of

sections 46a, 468, -

46c, 46D, 46c,
46r, 460 and 46H
in the principal
enactment.


2 National Transport Commission (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 1996

Functions of the 46s. Notwithstanding any _ other

Registrarof . provision of the Companies Act, No. 17 of
Companies 1982, on receipt ofa direction from the Minister
uponreceiptof ynder section 46a, the Registrar of
a direction Companies shall—

under section

46a. (a) register a company (such company is

hereinafter referred to as a “new
company”) in the name specified in
such direction and issue a certificate of
incorporation under section 15 (1) of
that Act, in respect of that company ;

(b) publish an Order in the Gazette that a
public compny has been incorporated
under that Act, in the name specified in
the Order to take over and carry on the
business activilies carried on by the
peoplised companies referred to in the

Order. .
Allotment of 46c. Upon the publication of an Order
sharesinnew  —_ ynder section 46n in the Gazette, the Registrar
Companies. of Companies shall allot to every shareholder

of a peoplised company referred to in that
Order, shares in the new compny equivalent,
as far as practicable, to the nominal vale of
shares held by such shareholder in the

peoplised company.
Effect of 46p. With effect from the publication in
Order,made. the Gazette of an Order under section 468—
under section
463. ' (a) every peoplised company referred to in

such Order shall, notwithstanding
anything in section 45 be deemed to
have been liquidated under the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982, and the
Registrar of Companies shall take steps
to delete the name of such company
from the registers maintained by him ;

(b) all property, movable or immovable, |.
owned by a peoplised company
referred to in such Order, on the day
immediately preceding the date of such
Order shall, with effect from the date of
such Order, vest in the new company
specified in such Order ;


National Transport Commission (Amendment) 3
Act, No. 30 of 1996 ‘

(c) all contracts and agreements entered into

by a peoplised company referred to in

such Order and subsisting on the day

’ immediately preceding the date of such

Order shall, with effect from the date of

such Order, be deemed to be contracts

and agreements entered into by the new
“company referred to in such Order ;

(d) all liabiliues of a peoplised company
referred to in such Order and subsisting

on the day immediately preceding the -

date of such Order shall, with effect
from the date of such Order, be deemed
to be the liabilities of the new company
specified in such Order ;

y

(e) all actions and proceedings instituted by
or against a peoplised company referred
to in such Order and pending on the day
immediately preceding the date of such
Order shall, with effect from the date of
such Order, be deemed to be actions and
proceedings instituted by or against the

- new company specified in such Order
and may be continued accordingly ;

(f) all decrees and awards entered or made
’ by any Court or Tribunal in any action ©

or proceeding instituted by or against a
peoplised company referred to in such
Order and remaining unsatisfied on the
day preceding the date of such Order
shall, with effect from the date of such
Order, be deemed to be decrees or awards
entered or made in favour or against, as
the case may be, of the new company
specified in such Order and may be
enforced accordingly.

46. Nothing in section 18 shallbe deemed
toprohibit the grant, by an authorized person
or the Commission, of a passenger service
permit in respect of an omnibus, the registered
owner of which is a new company.

Section 18 not to
apply to new
companies.


4 _— National Transport Commission (Amendment)

\

Commission
may give
directions to a
new company.

Government
guarantee. -

Restriction on
issue of
passenger

service permits.

all .

Act, No. 30 of 1996

46r. The Commission may give to any
new company, such general or special
directions as may be necessary to ensure
compliance by such company with time
tables for operating omnibuses. It shall be
the duty of every new company to comply
with a direction given to il under this section.

46c. (1) The Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance may with the concurrence
of the Cabinet of Ministers, guarantee any
sum due on a loan, overdraft or other
accommodation, granted to a new company
or on debentures issucd by such new

company. ,
(2) Any sum required for the fulfilment

of a guarantee provided in subsection (1)
shall be paid out of the Consolidated Fund.

(3) Any sum paid out of the
Consolidated Fund in fulfilment of a
guarantee provided under subsection (1)
shail be repaid with interest thereon at such
rate as the Minister in charge of the subject
of Finance may determine, by the new
company in such manner and over such
period as such Minister may determine.

(4) Immediately after a guarantee is
provided under subsection (1), the Minister in
charge of the subject of Finance, shall lay a
statement of the guarantee before Parliament.

(5) Where any sum is paid out of the
Consolidated Fund in fulfilment of a
guarantee provided under subsection (1),
the Minister in charge of the subject of
Finance shall forthwith lay before
Parliment a statement that such sum has
been paid.

46H. (1) From and after such date as the
Minister may appoint by Order published in
the Gazette, a passenger service permit
authorizing the use of an omnibus for the
carriage of passengers shall except in the


_ National Transport Commission (Amendment) 5
Act, No. 30 of 1996

case of omnibuses operating on such routes or
classes of routes as may be prescribed, be
issucd by an authorized person or the
Commission, only in respect of an omnibus
(he capacity of which is not.less than forty
scals.

(2) The making of an Order under
subsection (1) shall be deemed not to prohibit,
the renewal, after the date of such Order, of a
passenger service permit authorizing the use
of an omnibus for the carriage of passengers,
issued prior to the date of such Order, in respect
of an omnibus designed to carry less than the
prescribed number of passengers.

(3) After the expiration of five years from
such date, as the Minister may appoint by
Order published in the Gazette, a passenger
service permit authorizing the use of an
omnibus for the carriage of passengers shall
except in the case of a permit issued in respect
of such route or classes of routes as may be
prescribed be issued by an authorized person
or the Commission, only toa person or body of

persons who owns and operates at least fifty .

ominibuses.

(4) The: provisions of this section shall
have effect notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Act, or any other written law
authorizing the issue of a passenger service
permit or similar authority authorizing the use
of an omnibus for the carriage of passengers.’

4. Section 47 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended, by the substitution, for the words “ the Schedule to
this Act”, of the words “the First Schedule to this Act“.

5. The Schedule to the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the repeal of the heading to the Schedule and the
substitution therefor of the following heading :—

“First SCHEDULE”

easton aoe 6. The principal enactment-is hereby
inthe raincipal amended by the addition of the end thereof of

enacument. the following :

Amendmense |
section $7 at de
poneipal
enactmenl

Amendment of
Schedule to the
principal
enactment.


6 National Transport Comnussion (Amendment)
Act, No, 30 of 1996

SInIsiaent to 7. In the event of any inconsistency
ase ot Any between the Sinhala and Tamil texts of this

inconsistency. Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
“SECOND SCHEDULE [section 46a]

Negombo Passenger Transport Services Limited.

Ratmalana Passenger Transport Services Limited.

Seemasahitha Mahanuwara Dakuna Janatha Santhaka
Pravahana Sevaya. .

Avissawella Peoplised Passenger Transport Services
Limited,

Seemasahitha Kuruncgala Dakuna Janatha Santhaka
Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Mahanuwara Mahuta Janatha Santhaka
Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kataragama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Nittambuwa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. |

Seemasahitha Kappetipola Janatha Santhaka miavabana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Balangoda Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Horana Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Wariyapola Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Galgamuwa Janatha Santhaka pravatiania

Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Alawwa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kurunegala Uthura danatha Santhaka
Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Giriulla Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. ‘

Seemasahitha Weiriapoawa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana -
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Nikaweratiya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.


National Transport Commission (Amendment) 7
Act, No. 30 of 1996

Seemasahitha Puttalama Janatha Santhaka ‘Pravahana

Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Halawatha Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Mahawa Janatha. Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kuliyapitiya Tariatita Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Bandarawela Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Wellawaya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Moneragala Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Bibile Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Badulla Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Mahiyanganaya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Anuradhapura Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kekirawa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kahatagasdigiliya Janatha Santhaka
Pravahana Sevaya.
Seemasahitha Kebithigollawa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.
Seemasahitha Polonnaruwa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Galle Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Matara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Elpitiya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Akuressa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Tangalla Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Ambalangoda Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. |

Seemasahitha Kalawana Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. |


8 National Transport Commission (Amendment)
Act, No. 30 of 1996

Seemasahitha Embilipitiya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Godakawela Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Ratnapura Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Deraniyagala Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kegalle Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Mawanella Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. :

Seemasahitha Rambukkana Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Wattegama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Yatinuwara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Gampola Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Hanguranketa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Walapane Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Dambulle Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Matale Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Hatton Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Nuwara-Eliya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Nawalapitiya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Panadura Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kalutara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Moratuwa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Homagama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kesbewa j anatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Maharagama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.


National Transport Commission (Amendment)... 9
Act, Noe30 of 1996

Seemasahitha Udahamulla Janatha. Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Scemassh tha Maku di Vanesa Sait PF valiaia Sev

Seemasahitha Alutgama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Hakmana Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Meetotamulla Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Welisara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Mattakkuliya Janatha Santhaka § Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Divulapitiya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. ;

Seemasahitha Ja-Ela Janatha Santhaka Pravahanar Sea

Seemasahitha Talangama Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Gampaha Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kelaniya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kirindiwala Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Scemasahitha Angoda Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kadawata Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kantale Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Ampara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Udadumbara Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. —

Seemasahitha ‘Aekaraiiituora Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kalmunai Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha AniBatantaa" Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Vavuniyava Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. Pg

Seemasahitha Trikunamalaya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

Seemasshitha Udugama Janata Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

32


10 - National Transport Commission (Amendment)

Act, No. 30 of 1996
Seemasahitha Teldeniya Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Kotmale Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha K atubedde Janatha Santhaka Pravahana Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Valachchena Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya.

* Seemasahitha Madakalapuwa Janatha Santhaka Pravahana

Sevaya.

Seemasahitha Muttur Janatha Santhaka Pravahana
Sevaya. ”.
