PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 5.50 Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 25, 2005

[Certified on 21st November, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

COMMERCIAL MEDIATION CENTRE OFSRI LANKA (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 37 OF 2005

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 20051

Short title.

[Certified on 21st November, 2005]

L. D. O. 86/2002.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE COMMERCIAL MEDIATION CENTRE OFSRI LANKA ACT, NO. 44 OF 2000

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Commercial MediationCentre of Sri Lanka (Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005.

2.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 3 of the Commercial MediationCentre of Sri Lanka Act, No. 44 of 2000, (hereinafter referredto as the principal enactment) and shall have effect assections 3A, 3B, 3C, 3D, 3E and 3F of that enactment:

3A. (1) Where parties have agreed under amediation agreement to refer any dispute forsettlement by mediation in terms of this Act,notwithstanding anything in any other writtenlaw to the contrary, no proceedings in regard toa commercial dispute shall be instituted in, orbe entertained by a Court unless accompaniedby a certificate of non-settlement referred to insection 3F.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) shallnot apply where a party to a dispute referred totherein seeks relief in respect of any provisionalremedy under Part V of the Civil Procedure Codeand any action instituted in respect of any suchmatter may be entertained and determined by aCourt only in so far as it relates to the grant ofsuch provisional remedy.

(3) For the purposes of this section amediation agreement may be in the form of amediation clause in a contract or in the form of

Insertion of newsections 3A, 3B, 3C,3D, 3E and 3F inthe CommercialMediaiton Centreof Sri Lanka Act,No. 44 of 2000.No courtaction to beinstitutedwithoutcertificate ofnon-settlement.

2Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005

a separate agreement by which the partiesagree to refer all or any dispute which mayarise between them in respect of a defined legalrelationship whether contractual or otherwise,for settlement by mediation.

3B. An application being made to thecentre for the settlement of any dispute bymediation, shall be dealt with in terms of rulesmade by the Board under paragraph (b) ofsubsection (2) of section 12.

3c. It shall be the duty of every party to adispute and of every Mediator to maintainconfidentiality in respect of documentssubmitted and any other matters that arerevealed or discussed during the conduct ofmediation sessions.

3D. (1) Every person who makes a statementat a mediation session shall, in respect of suchstatement be entitled to all the privilegeswhich a witness giving evidence before a courtof law is entitled to, in respect of suchevidence.

(2) No statement made by any person at amediation session shall be admissible inevidence in any civil or criminal proceeding.

3E. Where, the parties to a dispute agree toa settlement, the terms of the settlement shall

(a)be reduced to writing; and

(b)be signed by the parties; and

(c)be binding as between the parties andenforceable in law as a valid contract.

Dispute to bemediated interms of rulesof the Centre.

Confidentiality.

Privilege ofpersonsmakingstatement at amediationsession.

Settlementagreement.

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 20053

3F. (1) Where the parties to a dispute do notagree to a settlement, the mediator or themediators who shall have managed themediation process in respect of such dispute,shall issue a Certificate stating that it was notpossible to settle such dispute by mediation.Every such Certificate shall be signed by themediator or mediators as the case may be.

(2) A certificate issued under subsection (1)may be produced in evidence in any action orproceeding instituted in any Court, and it shallnot be necessary to call such person as a witnessin proof thereof.

(3) The court may presume that the signatureof any mediator on any Certificate of non-settlement is genuine and that the mediatorsigning it had authority to do so:

Provided that if in any case the Court is ofopinion on the application of any party orotherwise and for reasons to be recorded that itis necessary that the mediator be present to giveevidence at any proceedings before such court,such mediator shall be summoned as a witnessfor the purpose only of giving evidence inrelation to the signing of such Certificate..

3.Section 5 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedas follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the insertionimmediately after paragraph (e) thereof, of thefollowing new paragraph :

(f)one member nominated by the Minister incharge of the subject of Trade and Commerce.;and

Amendment ofsection 5 of theprincipalenactment.

Certificate ofnon-settlement.

4Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 2005

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (6)of that section of the following new subsection:

(7) A member appointed to the Board underparagraphs (a), (b), (c) or (d) of subsection (1) torepresent a Chamber as is specified therein shallcease to hold office as a member of the Board ifhe ceases to be a member of the respectiveChamber which he represents..

4.In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Commercial Mediation Centre of Sri Lanka(Amendment) Act, No. 37 of 20055

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.