PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

FINANCE ACT, No. 5 OF 2005

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 30th March, 2005]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 12.25Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of April 01, 2005

1Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

2P.L 0000385,650 (02/2005)

[Certified on 30th March, 2005]

L.D.O. 59/2004.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE IMPOSITION OF CERTAIN LEVIES

CONSEQUENTIAL TO THE 2005 BUDGET PROPOSALS ; AND TO MAKE

PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005.

PART I

IMPOSITION OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LEVY

2.A levy to be called the Social Responsibility Levyshall, subject to the provisions of this Act, be imposed witheffect from the year commencing on January 1, 2005 and forevery year thereafter, at the rate of 0.25 per centum on alltaxes and levies chargeable in terms of the provisions of theenactments specified in the First Schedule to this Act. Thefunds so collected by way of the Social Responsibility Levyshall be disbursed for meeting any expenditure incurred forthe implementation of activities connected with the NationalAction Plan for Children, approved by the Government :

Provided that the imposition of the Social ResponsibilityLevy in terms of the provisions of this Part of this Act, on incometax chargeable under the provisions of the Inland Revenue Act,No. 38 of 2000, shall be effective from April 1, 2005.

3.The Social Responsibility Levy collectable in termsof section 2 shall be collected at the time of payment of suchtaxes or levies, by the relevant authorities administering suchenactments as are specified in the First Schedule to this Actand shall be credited to a special account operated for suchpurpose. The money so collected shall be remitted to theConsolidated Fund within fifteen days from the date of thecollection of such money by the relevant authorities.

Short title.

Imposition ofSocialResponsibilityLevy.

SocialResponsibilityLevy to becollected byrelevantauthorities.

2Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

4.Every relevant authority administering theenactments specified in the First Schedule shall maintainrecords of all amounts collected by such authorities in relationto the Social Responsibility Levy chargeable by suchauthorities in terms of the provisions of the respectiveenactments specified in the Schedule to this Act.

5.(1) Any person to whom the provisions of this Part ofthis Act applies, who fails to pay the total amount of theSocial Responsibility Levy in terms of section 2, shall bedeemed to be a defaulter and where such defaulter is a bodycorporate, the Chairman of the Board of Directors, any directoror principal officer of such body corporate shall be deemedto be a defaulter for the purposes of this Part of this Act, andsuch Levy as is not paid on or before the due date shall bedeemed to be a Levy in default.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge inaddition to the Social Responsibility Levy in default,calculated

(a)at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for the subsequent period of onemonth or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment of the Levy under section 2 ; and

(b)at the rate two per centum of the amount of suchLevy as is in default for each subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment specified in paragraph (a),

which surcharge shall be collected by the relevant authoritiesadministering the enactments specified in the First Scheduleto this Act.

(3) The relevant authorities administering the enactmentsspecified in the First Schedule shall take action to recoverthe Social Responsibility Levy or such part of the Levy whichis in default for a period of more than three months, and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as isspecified hereafter.

Maintenanceof records.

Action incases offailure to paylevy.

3Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

(4) The relevant authorities administering the enactmentsspecified in the First Schedule shall cause to be issued on thedefaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps for therecovery of the Social Responsibility Levy in default alongwith the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,informing the defaulter of the intention of the relevantauthorities administering the encatments specified in the FirstSchedule to institute proceedings for the recovery of theamount of the Social Responsibility Levy in default and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in terms of theprovisions of this section.

(5) Where the relevant authorities administering theenactments specified in the First Schedule issues Notice onthe defaulter in terms of subsection (4) but the amount of theSocial Responsibility Levy in default and the amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though theperiod of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,the relevant authorities administering the enactmentsspecified in the First Schedule shall issue to the Magistratehaving jurisdiction over the division in which the defaulterresides or is carrying on business, a Certificate containingthe name and address of the defaulter and the total sum indefault along with a statement to the effect that the person sonamed has defaulted in making the payment as required bythis section. Where the defaulter is a body corporate, theCertificate shall contain the name of the Chairman, the Boardof Directors and of every Director of such body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for the recovery of the amount of the SocialResponsibility Levy or such part of the Levy which is indefault and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon.Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to beinsufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make order for

4Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

the recovery of the amount of the Social Responsibility Levyin default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon,from the defaulter as if it were a fine imposed by the Magistrate.The money so recovered shall be remitted to the respectiverelevant authorities administering the enactments specifiedin the First Schedule who shall credit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

6.(1) The provisions of this Part of the Act shall bedeemed for all purposes to have come into operation onJanuary 1, 2005.

(2) Where any amount has been collected by the relevantauthorities administering the enactments specified in the FirstSchedule, as Social Responsibility Levy in terms of this Partof the Act during the period commencing on January 1, 2005and ending on the date of the commencement of this Act, theSocial Responsibility Levy so collected shall be deemed tohave been validly collected and the respective relevantauthorities are hereby indemnified from any action civil orcriminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaid Levy.

PART II

IMPOSITION OF SHARE TRANSACTION LEVY

7.There shall be imposed with effect from the yearcommencing on January 1, 2005 and for every year thereafter,a levy to be called the Share Transaction Levy at the rate of0.2 per centum from every buyer and seller, on the turnoverof every share trading transaction, which is conducted througha Stock Exchange.

8.The Share Transaction Levy so imposed shall becollected by the relevant stockbroker, stock dealer orcustodian bank as the case may be, who is responsible for thesettlement of such share transaction. The ShareTransactionLevy so collected in terms of section 7 shall be paid to thestock exchange through which the share transaction tookplace, at the time of making settlement of such sharetransaction by the respective stockbroker, stock dealer or

Imposition ofShareTransactionLevy.

Date ofoperation of thisPart andindemnity.

ShareTransactionLevy to becollected byrelevantstockbroker &c.

5Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

Returns to befurnished ofcollections.

custodian bank, as the case may be. The Stock Exchangeshall remit the levy so collected to the Commissioner-Generalwithin three working days from the date of such settlement.

9. The Stock Exchange shall furnish to theCommissioner-General, a monthly statement giving the totalturnover in respect of which the Share Transaction Levy hasbeen remitted to the Commissioner-General within fifteendays from the last day of each month.

10.(1) Any stockbroker, stock dealer or custodian bankas the case may be, to whom the provisions of this part of thisAct applies, who fails to pay the total amount of the ShareTransaction Levy in terms of sections 7 and 8, shall be deemedto be a defaulter, and where such defaulter is a body corporate,the Chairman of the Board of Directors and every Director orprincipal officer of such body corporate shall be deemed tobe a defaulter for the purposes of this Part of this Act, andsuch Levy as is not paid on or before the due date shall bedeemed to be a Levy in default.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge inaddition to the Share Transaction Levy in default,calculated

(a)at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for the subsequent period of onemonth or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment of the Levy under section 8 ; and

(b)at the rate of two per centum of the amount of suchLevy as is in default for each subsequent period ofone month or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment specified in paragraph (a),

which surcharge shall be collected by the Commissiner-General.

(3) The Commissioner-General shall take action to recoverthe Share Transaction Levy or such part of the Levy which isin default for a period of more than three months and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as isspecified hereafter.

Action in case offailure to paylevy.

6Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

(4) The Commissioner-General shall cause to be issued onthe defaulter, three weeks prior to the taking of any steps forthe recovery of the Share Transaction Levy in default alongwith the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,informing the defaulter of the intention of theCommissioner-General to institute proceedings for therecovery of the amount of the Share Transaction Levy indefault and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon interms of the provisions of this section.

(5) Where the Commissioner-General issues Notice on thedefaulter in terms of subsection (4) but the amount of theShare Transaction Levy in default and the amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon remains unpaid even though theperiod of three weeks specified in such Notice has elapsed,the Commissioner-General shall issue to the Magistratehaving jurisdiction over the division in which the defaulterresides or is carrying on business, a Certificate containingthe name and address of the defaulter and the total sum indefault along with a statement to the effect that the person sonamed has defaulted in making the payment as required bythis section, Where the defaulter is a body corporate, theCertificate shall contain the name of the Chairman of theBoard of Directors and of every Director or principal officerof such body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for the recovery of the amount of the ShareTransaction Levy or such part of the Levy which is in defaultand the surcharge accrued thereon. Where the cause shownappears to the Magistrate to be insufficient so as to explainthe reason for the non-payment, the Magistrate shall afterrecording the same, make order for the recovery of the amountof the Share Transaction Levy in default and the amount ofthe surcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it werea fine imposed by the Magistrate. The money so recoveredshall be remitted to the Commissioner-General, who shallcredit the same to the Consolidated Fund.

7Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

Date ofoperation of thisPart andindemnity.

Interpretation forPart II.11.In this Part of the Act, unless the context otherwiserequires,

Commissioner-General means the Commissioner-General of Inland Revenue appointed in terms ofthe Inland Revenure Act, No. 38 of 2000 ;

custodian bank means any Bank licensed by the CentralBank of Sri Lanka providing custody services inrespect of share transactions ;

stockbroker means any individual or body corporateengaged in the business of buying or selling ofsecurities on behalf of investors in return for acommission ;

stock dealer means any individual or body corporateengaged in the business of buying or selling ofsecurities or in the dealing or jobbing or trading ofsecurities, or the underwriting or retailing ofsecurities ; and

stock exchange means a market, exchange, or other placeat which securities are regularly offered for sale,purchase or exchange, including any servicesconnected with such business.

12.(1) The provisions of this Part of the Act shall bedeemed for all purposes to have come into operation onJanuary 1, 2005.

(2) Where any amount has been collected by theCommissiner-General as Share Transaction Levy in terms ofthis Part of the Act during the period commencing onJanuary 1, 2005 and ending on the date of the commencementof this Act, the Share Transaction Levy so collected shall bedeemed to have been validly collected and theCommissioner-General is hereby indemnified from any actioncivil or criminal in respect of the collection of the aforesaidLevy.

8Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

PART III

CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY GUARANTEE FUND LEVY

13.There shall be imposed with effect from the yearcommencing on January 1, 2005 and for every year thereafter,a levy to be called the Construction Industry Guarantee FundLevy on every construction contract enforced in Sri Lankaby every construction contractor on their contract valuearising from any contract entered into on or after that date,calculated at the rates set out in the Second Scheule to thisAct. The percentage of the Construction Industry GuaranteeFund Levy so calculated shall be based on the total costwhich shall be payable by each contractor or sub-contractoras the case may be, even if the individual sub-contract valueis lower than the amounts specified in the Second Scheduleto this Act.

14.The Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levypayable under section 13 shall be remitted by the constructioncontractor to the Institute for Construction Training andDevelopment (hereinafter referred to as ICTAD) at the timethat the contractor receives each contract payment.

15.The Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy,collected by ICTAD on behalf of the Government in respectof each contract in terms of section 13, shall be creditedwithin fifteen days from the end of every month as providedfor in section 13 to the Consolidated Fund along with amonthly statement setting out the basis of the calculation ofthe amount payable as the Construction Industry GuaranteeFund Levy.

16.The Secretary to the Treasury may from time to timeissue guidelines in relation to the collection and remittenceof the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy on behalfof the Government.

Imposition ofConstructionIndustryGuarantee FundLevy.

Mode ofcollection ofConstructionIndustryGuarantee FundLevy.

ICTAD to collectthe ConstructionIndustryGuarantee FundLevy on behalfof theGovernment.

Secretary to theTreasury to issueguidelines.

9Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

17.ICTAD shall furnish within thirty days after the lastday of the year to which the collection of the ConstructionIndustry Guarantee Fund Levy relates, a statement containingsuch information as may be specified by the Secretary to theTreasury.

18.ICTAD shall maintain a record of all amountscollected by it in relation to the turnover on every contractentered into on or after January 1, 2005, by the relevantcontractors and the reconciliation of the statement relatingto the collection of the Construction Industry Guarantee FundLevy.

19.(1) Any construction contractor to whom theprovisions of this Part of this Act applies, who fails to pay thetotal amount of the Construction Industry Guarantee FundLevy in terms of section 13, shall be deemed to be a defaulterand where such defaulter is a body corporate, the Chairmanof the Board of Directors, any director or principal officer ofsuch body corporate shall be deemed to be a defaulter for thepurposes of this Part of this Act, and such Levy as is not paidon or before the due date shall be deemed to be a Levy indefault.

(2) The defaulter shall be liable to pay a surcharge inaddition to the Construction Industry Guarantee Fund Levyin default, calculated

(a)at the rate of ten per centum of the amount of suchlevy as is in default for the subsequent period of onemonth or part thereof, from the due date for thepayment of the Levy under section 16 ; and

(b)at the rate of two per centum of such Levy as is indefault for each subsequent period of one month orpart thereof, from the due date for the paymentspecified in paragraph (a),

which surcharge shall be collected by ICTAD.

Statements to befurnished ofcollection.

Maintenance ofrecords.

Action in casesof failure to paylevy.

10Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

(3) ICTAD shall take action to recover the ConstructionIndustry Guarantee Fund Levy or such part of the Levy whichis in default for a period of more than three months, and theamount of the surcharge accrued thereon, in the manner as isspecified hereafter.

(4) ICTAD shall cause to be issued on the defaulter, threeweeks prior to the taking of any steps for the recovery of theConstruction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in default andthe amount of the surcharge accrued thereon, a Notice,informing the defaulter of the intention of ICTAD to instituteproceedings for the recovery of the amount of theConstruction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in default andthe amount of the surcharge accrued thereon in terms of theprovisions of this section.

(5) Where ICTAD issues Notice on the defaulter in termsof subsection (4) but the amount of the Construction IndustryGuarantee Fund Levy in default and the surcharge thereonremains unpaid even though the period of three weeksspecified in such Notice has elapsed, ICTAD shall issue tothe Magistrate having jurisdiction over the division in whichthe defaulter resides or is carrying on business, a Certificatecontaining the name and address of the defaulter and thetotal sum in default along with a statement to the effect thatthe person so named has defaulted in making the payment asrequired by this section. Where the defaulter is a bodycorporate, the Certificate shall contain the name of theChairman of the Board of Directors and of every Director orthe principal officer of such body corporate.

(6) The Magistrate shall on receipt of the Certificate issuedunder subsection (5), issue summons on the defaulterrequiring him to appear before him on a date to be specifiedand show cause as to why proceedings should not be takenagainst him for the recovery of the amount of the ConstructionIndustry Guarantee Fund Levy or such part of the Levy whichis in default and the amount of the surcharge accrued thereon.Where the cause shown appears to the Magistrate to beinsufficient so as to explain the reason for the non-payment,

11Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

the Magistrate shall after recording the same, make order forthe recovery of the amount of the Construction IndustryGuarantee Fund Levy in default and the amount of thesurcharge accrued thereon, from the defaulter as if it were afine imposed by the Magistrate. The money so recoveredshall be remitted to ICTAD who shall credit the same to theConsolidated Fund.

20.In this Part of this Act, unless the context otherwiserequires

construction contractor means the person or persons ororganization or organizations named as thecontractor in a bid or who is otherwise accepted bythe employer as the person or organisationresponsible for the implementation, completion andmaintenance of the construction works being carriedout under the terms of such contract ;

contract value means the amount or the amounts statedin the letters of acceptance and which are thereafteradjusted in accordance with the provisions of thecontract. The said contract value shall be the sumtotal of individual contracts or of several contractswhich have been entered into in respect of thecarrying out of the construction of the project andshall include sub-contract values, supply contractvalues and such other construction costs that maybe incurred in carrying out the works ; and

The Institution for Construction, Training andDevelopment (ICTAD) means the industrialundertaking constituted and established by Ordermade under section 3 of the State IndustrialCorporations Act, No. 49 of 1957 and published inGazette Extraordinary No. 718/15 of June 10, 1992.

21.The provisions of this Part of this Act shall be deemedfor all purposes to have come into operation with effect fromJanuary 1, 2005.

Interpretation forPart III.

Operation of theprovisions of thisPart.

12Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

22.The amount charged and collected by ICTAD asConstruction Industry Guarantee Fund Levy in terms of thisPart of the Act, during the period commencing from January1, 2005 and ending on the date of commencement of this Act,shall be deemed to have been so validly charged and leviedand ICTAD is hereby indemnified from any action civil orcriminal in respect of the collection of such levy.

PART IV

AMENDMENT OF FINANCE ACT, NO. 11 OF 2002

23.The Finance Act, No. 11 of 2002 is hereby amendedin section 2 of Part I of that Act, (Port and Airport DevelopmentLevy) by the repeal of the proviso to that section and thesubstitution therefor of the following :

Provided that, in respect of the cost, insurance and freightvalue of any article referred to above, there shall, with effectfrom November 19, 2004, be charged and levied a levy at therate of 1.5 per centum :

Provided further, that in the case of an article importedinto Sri Lanka for the purpose of processing and re-export,the levy on the cost, insurance and freight value of thatatricle

(a)for the period Commencing on January 1, 2003 andending on December 31, 2004 shall be charged andlevied at the rate of 0.5 per centum ; and

(b)for the period commencing on January 1, 2005, shallbe charged and levied at the rate of 0.25 per centum..

24.Where an amount equal to one per centum on the onthe cost, insurance and freight value of such article has beencollected by the Director-General of Customs as Port andAirport Levy in terms of this Part of this Act during the periodcommencing on November 19, 2004 and ending on the date

Indemnity.

Amendment ofsection 2 of PartI of the FinanceAct, No. 11 of2002.

Indemnity.

13Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

of commenement of this Act, from any person importing, anarticle as is referred to in Part I of the Finance Act, No. 11 of2002, such collection shall be deemed for all purposes tohave been and to be, validly made, and the Director-Generalof Customs is hereby indemnified against all action civil orcriminal, in respect of such collection.

PART V

GENERAL

25.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofall matters which are required by this Act to be prescribed orin respect of which regulations are required or authorized tobe made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication, or on such later date as may bespecified therein.

(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall, assoon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette, beplaced before Parliament for approval. Every regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as fromthe date of disapproval, but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which any regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

26. In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Regulations.

14Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

FIRST SCHEDULE(Section 2)

1.The Excise Ordinance (Chapter 52).

2.The Customs Ordinance (Chapter 235).

3.The Excise (Special Provisions) Act, No. 13 of 1989.

4.The Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000. (Other than theprovisions of Chapter XV, XVI, XVII and Section 33 andSection 61).

SECOND SCHEDULE(Section 13)

Value of ConstructionRates applicable for the Contractcalculation of the Levy

1. Where the value of the constructioncontract is less than rupees fifteen millionNil

2. Where the value of the constructioncontract is not less than rupees fifteenmillion and not exceeding rupees fiftymillion0.25 per centum

3. Where the value of the constructioncontract is not less than rupees fifty millionand not exceeding rupees one hundred andfifty million0.5 per centum

4. Where the value of the constructioncontract is rupees one hundred and fiftymillion or above1 per centum

15Finance Act, No. 5 of 2005

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.