PARLIAMENT ( OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

TAX AMNESTY

~ ACT, No. 5 OF .1989

[Certified on 11th May, 1989]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of Muy 12, 1989

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKs .

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS. BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price: 90 cents. =. aot "Portage : 75 cents


Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989
[Certified on llth May, 1989]
L.D.-—O. 10/89.

An ACY TO ENABLE THE Deposit IN SPECIAL ACCOUNTS IN THE
NATIONAL SAVINGS BANK oF MoNEYS REPRESENTING
ACCUMULATED Pror:TS AND INCOME IN RESPECT OF WHICH A

PERSON HAS NOT FURNISHED A RETURN OF INCOME Of’

WHICH HAVE NOT BEEN DISCLOSED IN .A RETURN FURNISHED
BY SUCH PERSON UNDER THE LAW RELATING TO THE IMPOSITION
OF INCOME TAX ; TO IMPOSE AND LEVY A TAX ON THE MONEYS
DEPOSITED IN SUCH SPECIAL ACCOUNTS, TO ENABLE THE
WITHDRAWAL OF THE MONEYS DEPOSITED IN SUCH SPECIAL

ACCOUNTS FOR SPECIFIED PURPOSES, TO INDEMNIFY PORSONS
WHO DEPOSIT MONEYS IN SUCH SPECIAL ACCOUNTS AGAINST
LIASILITY TO FAY CERTAIN TAXES IN RESPECT OF THE PROFITS
AND INCOME REPRESENTED BY SUCH MONEYS AND AGAINST
PROSECUTIONS FOR-OFFENCES IN RELATING TO SUCH PROFITS

_ AND INCOME ; AND YOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR
INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratie Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5
of 1989, and shail come into operation on April 1, 1989.

2. (1) This Act shall, subject to the provisions of sub
section (2), apply to any person who under tthe law for
the time being applicable to the imposition of income tax
or surcharge on income tax was liable to pay such tax for
-any year of assessment ending on or before March 31, 1988,
in respect of any profits or income which arose or accrued
on or before March 31, 1988, and who has not - fur-
nished.a return of income under the provisions of such
law for any such year of assessment or who has not disclosed
such profits or income in any return furnished by him under
the provisions of such law for any such year of assessment.

(2) The provisions of this Act shall not apply to any
person in relation to whom investigations have been comm-
enced by ihe Commissioner-General or by any other officer
of the Department of Inland Revenue for any alleged or
suspected evasion of any tax payable under the provisions
of the law.for the time being applicable to the imposition
of inceme tax or surcharge on income tax, or business
turnover tax under the Finance Act, No. 11 of .1963 or
urnover tax under the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981,
in respect of profits or income or turnover wich arose or
accrued an or before March 31, 1988.

2 — D 004419 —10,130 (89/04)

Short

iitic and
date of
operation.

Person to
wnem this
Act
applies.


Persons
to whom.
this Act
applies °
may
deposit.
moneys in
special
accounts:
in the
Bank.

Charge of
a tax
equal to
20 per ;
centum

of the
moneys

Geposited in

a special
account
in the
Bank.

Restrictions
on
withdrawal
of moneys
deposited
in special .
accounts,

“ deposit such moneys to his
-account as may be opened by him for that PULDOSE in the

2 Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989

(3) Every person referred to in subsection (1), not being.
a person to whom the provisions of subsection (2) applies,
shall hereafter in this Act be referred to asa “person to

whom this Act applies”.

3. Where any person to whom this Act applies has
moneys which represent accumulated profits’or income in
respect of which such person has not made a return of income
or which such person has not disclosed in the returns of in-
come made by him under the law for the time being appli-
cable to the imposition of income tax or surcharge on income -
tax, then such person may, on or before June 30, 1989

Bank.

4. (4) Every person who deposits moneys in a special
account in the Bank under the provisions of section 3 shall—

(a) make a declaration to the Bank in the Form set out
- in the Schedule to this Act; and

(t) be liable to pay to the Commissioner-General a tax
of an amount equal to 20 per centum of the moneys
so deposited.

(2) The tax payable by any person under subsection (1) °
shall, notwithstanding anything in any written law, be paid
to the Commissioner-General by the Bank on or before
July 31, 1$89, oul: af moneys lying to the credit of such.
person in any such special account as is referred to in
section 3.

(3) The payment by the Bank of the tax to the Commis-
sioner-General under’ subsection (2) from the moneys lving

' to the credit of any person in any such special account as

is referred to in section 3 shall be deemed to be authorized
by such person, and such tax shall be deemed to have been
paid bv such person to the Commissioner-General.

5. Notwithstanding anything in any other law the Bank
shall not permit any person who has deposited any moneys:
in any such special account as is referred to in section 3 to.
withdraw, prior to July 1, 1991, the whole or any part of the
balance amount lying to the credit of such person in such

' special account after payment of’ the tax referred to in
section 4 (other than the interest accruing on such balance «©

amount), except for the purposes specified in section 6.

credit in any such special _


sux Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989 | 3

6. (1) Auy person who has deposited any moneys in any Purposes
such special account as is referred to in section 3, may with- a

draw the balance amount lying to his credit in such special deposited

account after payment of the tax referred to in section 4, deena
after June 30, 1991: may be
. withdrawn,

Provided, however, that such person may withdraw, after
July 31, 1989, the whole or a part of such balance amount
for—

(a) investment in an agricultural or industrial under-
taking providing employment to not less than ten
persons and approved by the Minister in charge of

- the implementation of the Janasaviya Programme ;
or

(€)} for the purpose of making a donation to the Jana-
_ saviya Fund, established by the Janasaviya Fund.
Act, 1989. . ,

(2) Where any person who withdraws after July 31, 1989,
any moneys lying to his credit in any such special account
as is referred to in section 3 for any of the purposes specified
in the proviso to section 6, fails to apply. such moneys for
the purpose for which such moneys were withdrawn, such
person shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, he
liable to ‘a fine of an amount equal to the moneys
withdrawn and an amount not exceeding fifty thousand
rupees. a

(3) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, in
computing the taxable income for any year of assessment
commencing on or after April 1, 1989, of any person who
withdraws after July 31, 1989, moneys lying to-his credit in
any such special account as is referred to in section 3 and
applies such moneys to any of the purposes specified in the
proviso to section 6, no deduction shall be allowed from the
assessable income of that person for that year of assessment,
in respect of the moneys so applied.

7. The Bank shall pay interest on the balance amount _ Interest
lying to the credit of any person in any such special account duposited ip
as is referred to in section 3, after payment of the tax <pecial
‘referred to in section 4, at the current rate of interest payable accounts.
by the Bank on moneys lying to the credit of savings
accounts. The interest so accruing may be withdrawn by

such person after July 31, 1989.


- Indemni-
fication of
a person
deeracd to
have paid
the tax
referred
to in
section 4
trom
certain
taxes and
prosecu-
tions.

4 Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989

8. Any personto whom this Act applies, who has
deposited moneys in any such special account as is referred

“to in section 3 and who is deemed under section 4, to have

paid the tax referred to in that section, shall not be liable—

‘* (a) to pay—

(i) any income tax or surcharge on income tax
under the law for the time being applicable
pe to the imposition of income tax or surcharge
| ‘on income tax, in respect of his profits or
income for any year of assessment ending on
or before March 31, 1988, and represented by
the amount of the accumulated profits or in-
come referred to in section 3 ;

(ii) any wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax
under the law for the time being applicable
to the imposition of wealth tax or surcharge
on wealth tax, in respect of his net wealth:
for any year of assessment ending on or

before March 31, 1988, in the acquisition ‘of
which the accumulated profits or income
referred to in section. 3 have been utilized ;
or ;

(iii) any business turnover tax under the Finance
Act, No. 11 of 1963 or any turnover tax under
the Turnover Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, in.
respect of the turnover from which the
amount of the accumulated profits or incame
_ referred to in section 3 arose, or was derived ;
or

(b) to a prosecution or to a sensi for any offence
. under— ‘

(i) the law for the time being relating to the
imposition of. income tax or surcharge on
income tax or wealth tax or surcharge on
wealth tax in relation to any year of assess-
ment ending on or before March 31, 1988, in

- respect of, or in connection with, the whole
or any part of the amount of the accumulated
profits or income, referred to in section 3;
or the wealth in the acquisition of which the
whole or any part of the amount of the
accumulated profits or income, referred to in
section 3, has been utilized ; or -


Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989 4)

(ii) the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963 or the Turnover
Tax Act, No. 69 of 1981, in relation to any
period prior to April 1, 1988, in respect of the
turnover from which the amount of the
accumulated profits or income, referred to in
section 3 arose or was derived.

§. Nothing in the preceding provisions of this Act,
shall be read or construed as authorising the revision of any
assessment made under the provisions of the law for the
time being relating to the imposition of income tax or
surcharge on income tax or wealth tax or surcharge on
wealth tax or any other matter which has become final and
conclusive under the aforesaid prqvisions.

10. (1) Every officer or employee of the Bank and every
officer or employee of the Department of Inland Revenue
shall preserve and aid in preserving secrecy with regard
to all matters that may come to his knowledge in the
operation of this Act:

Provided, however, that an officer or employee of the
Bank may communicate to the Commissioner-General or to
any officer of the Department of Inland Revenue or to a
court of law for the purpose of complying with the provi-
Sions of this Act, the following particulars relating to any
such special account: as is referred to in section 3:— _

(a) name of the holder of the account and income tax
file number;

(b).name of business, if any, and income tax file
number ; . :

(c) date of deposit or withdrawal ;

(d) amount deposited or withdrawn 7

(e) such other particulars as.are referred to in’ any.

declaration made under section 4 (1) (a) in
relation to such special account.

(2) Any officer or employee of the Bank or of the
‘Department of Inland Revenue who acts in contravention
of the provisions of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to a fine not

exceeding five thousand rupees. ¥

The
preceding
provisions
of this

construed as

authorizing

the.
revision

of any
assessment
previously
made.

Maintenance
of secrecy.


Sinhala
text to
prevail in
case of

inconsis- ° -

tency.

apesrpretes
tion.

Grgk 5 Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989

11. In the event of any inconsistency ‘between the
Sinhala and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text
shall prevail.

12. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

the expressions _ “Commissioner-General”, “profits”,
“income”, “wealth”, and “year of assessment”
shall have the same meanings respectively as in the

‘ Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979;

“Bank” means the National Savings Bank established by
the National Savings Bank Act, No. 30 of 1971;

“person” includes a company, a body of persons and a
partnership ;

. “the law for the time being applicable to the imposition.
of income tax and the surcharge on income tax”
means the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 and
the surcharge on Income Tax Act, No, 26 of 1982

-. and the Surcharge on Income Tax Act, No. 12:of
. 1984; ,

“the law for the time being applicable to the imposition

- of wealth tax or surcharge on wealth tax” means

the Inland Revenue Act, No. 28 of 1979 and the
Surcharge on Wealth Tax Act, No. 25 of 1982.

(section 4(I) (a).
SCHEDULE. :

Tax AMNESTY Act No. 5 or 1989

N

Declaration under Settion 4(1) (a)
( “4

Income Tax File No.

ut ANY. seeeeee-s
Special Amnesty Savings Deposit
Account No.........506
Name of business
if ANY. ....0. wees .
Date......ese8 00
I, Mr. /Mrs./Miss/We ..ccsecceicacees
(full name)
Of even se 2 edo Rereny : oan s

(Address) aro ae :


Tax Amnesty Act, No. 5 of 1989 7

(1) request you—

(a) to accept in terms of the Tax Amnesty Act, No.5 of
1989, a sum of Rupeses...... (Rs. ) to he placed in a
special Amnesty Savings Deposit Account in the name of

eer eo. enese of peeve reeesae

(b) to remit direct to the. Commissioner-General of Inland
Revcnue the tax due, on this amount, amounting to
Runves ase eeees (Ree )

(c) to hold the balance in that account, to wit—
' Amount tendered RS.: ccsssesaeS S88
Less 20 per cent tax deductible .. RSvicssewiwn eee

Balance to be held in Special

Amnesty Savings Deposit '
Account by the National :

Savings Bank

(2) undertake not to withdraw any part cf this balance amount
before July 1, 1991 except for the purpose srecified in section 6
of the aforementioned Act ;

(3) agree: to my /our Specigl Amnesty Savings Deposit Pass
Book keing kept in the safe custody of your Bank;

(4) further agree to be bound by the rules pertaining to
Savings Deposits in your Bank for the time being, and which may
come into eifert from time to time.

‘

Signature of Depositor.

Signed in my presence.

Signature of Branck Manager.
