tae
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIG
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MUNICIPAL COUNCILS AND

URBAN COUNCILS (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 42 OF 1979
[Certified on 25th June, 1979]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Pulished as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic

Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 13, 1979

'PROVTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF COVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANICA
Price: Rs. 1.35 Postage: 50 cents


‘Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

[Certified on 25th June, 1979]
LD—O. 70/78
Aw Acr To AMEND THE MunscrraL Councms OxDINANCE AND

‘tue Unean COUNCILS ORDINANCE.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—
1. This Act may be cited as the Municipal Councils and Short
‘Urban Councils (Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979. er
PART I
2. ‘The following new section is hereby inserted imme- Insertion

diately after section 136 of the Municipal Councils of2°¥
Ordinance (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the 130s in
“principal enactment”) and shall have effect as section jy"
136A of that enactment :— 7
aes 136a. (1) Any person who, within the
Sus3.PY administrative limits of the Colombo

Municipal Council, operates or causes to be

operated any factory which causes pollution

so as to endanger or prejudice the health of

the neighbourhood, shall be guilty of an

offence.

(2) Where a Magistrate after summary
inquiry conviets a person of an offence under
subsection (1) he shall, depending on the
degree of pollution caused by such factory,
make order—

(q) that such person pay a fine equivalent

to twice the fee payable for a licence

. issued under the provisions of this
Ordinance or any by-law made
thereunder, in respect of the pre-
mises on which that factory is
situated notwithstanding that such
amount exceeds the amount of fine
which a Magistrate may impose in
the exercise of his ordinary jurisdic-
tion and the amount so recovered
shall be paid into the Fund of the
Council ; oF

. (b) that operations in such factory shall

Mt cease.
26 41412—11,135 (79/04)


2 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
For the purposes of this section, “ pollu-
tion” means any direct or indizvet alteration
of the physical, thermal, cheinical, biological
or radioactive properties of any part of the
environment by discharging, emitting or
depositing wastes so as to affect any bene-
ficial use adversely, to cause a condition
which is hazardous or potentially hazardous
to public health, safety or welfare or to
animals, birds, wildlife, fish or aquatic life,
or to plants.”.
Amendment 3. Section 230 of the principal enactment is hereby
Se tion 230 mended, by the addition, immediately after subsection (2)
tithe |) thereof, of the following new subsection :—
principal
ee “Every Municipal Council shall allow a discount of ten
per centum of the amount of any annual rate payable
under this section if such rate is paid on or before the
thirty-first day of Jannary of that year or where stich rate
is payable in instalments a Municipal Council shall allow
a discount of five per centum of the amount of instalment
of rate due if such amount is paid within the first one
month of the period for which the instalment of rate is
due.”.
Amendment 4 Section 245 of the principal enactment is hereby
son 245 amended, by the substitution for subsection (1) thereof, of
Othe the following subsection :—
principal
enactment, “ (i) Every Municipal Council may levy an annual tax
cn vehicles and animals specified in the Fourth
Schedule, and kept or used within the Municipality, at
the rates specified in that Schedule.”,
Insertion of 5: ‘The following new sections are hereby inserted
new sections immediately after section 247, and shall have effect as
247C’ 247p' sections 247A, 247B, 247C, 247D and 247E, of the principal
and 247 in enactment :—
the principal
enactment.
“Power of 2471. (1) A Municipal Council may,
eee tin impose and levy a duty in respect of licences
ence issued by the Council.
duties.
(2) The duty levied under subsection (1)
in respect of any licence issued by the
Council authorising the use of any premises
for any of the purposes described in this


% Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 3 +
a (Amendment) Act, No, 42 of 1979
Ordinance or in any by-law made thereunder
shall be determined by the Council according
to the annual value of the premises so
licensed :

Provided that where the annual value of

such premises falls within the limits of any
. item in Column I set out below, the
i maximum duty shall not exceed the sum
set out in the corresponding entry in Column
mr:
Column I Column IT
‘Rs.
‘Where the annual value—
: does not exceed Rs. 1,500 .. 2,000
exceeds Rs. 1,500 but does not
exceed Rs. 2,500 ++ 3,000

exceeds Rs. 2,500 ++ 5,000

Provided further, that where any such
premises are used for the purposes of a hotel,
restaurant or lodging house, and such hotel,
restaurant or lodging house is registered
with the Sri Lanka Tourist Board for the
purposes of the Tourist Development Act,
‘No. 14 of 1968, the duty so levied shall be
according to the takings of the hotel, restaur-
ant or lodging house for the year preceding
the year in which the licence duty is levied,
and shall not exceed one per centum of such
takings.

For the purposes of this section, “ takings”
in relation to a hotel, restaurant or lodging
house means the total amount received or
receivable from transactions entered into in
respect of that hotel, restaurant or lodging
house or for services performed in carrying
on that hotel, restaurant or lodging house.

faxon 247», (1) A Municipal Council may
trades: impose and levy a tax on any trade carried
- on within the administrative limits of that
Council.
(2) The tax levied under subsection (1)
shall be annual tax’ determined by the
Council according to the annual value of the.
premises on which that trade is corried on:


4 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

Provided that where the annual value of
such premises falls within the limits of any
item in Column I set out below, the tax
levied shall not exceed the sum set out in
the corresponding entry in Column II:

Column I Column IT
Rs.
Where the annual value—
: does not exceed Rs. 1,500 .. 2,000
exceeds Rs. 1,500 but does not
exceed Rs. 2,500 «+ 3,000
exceeds Rs. 2,500 ++ 5,000
: Provided further, that such tax shall not
be leviable or payable in respect of any trade
for which a licence is necessary under the
provisions of this Ordinance or any by-law
made thereunder.

(3) The tax levied under subsection (1)
shall be payable, on such date as may be
determined by the Council or prescribed by
by-law, by the person who carries on such
trade.

(4) If any person liable to pay the tax
leviable under this section fails to pay such
tax within seven days after demand, the
Council shall report such failure to the
Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over
the area in which such Council is situated.
The Court shall proceed to recover the
amount due as if it were a fine imposed by

i Court, notwithstanding that such amount
exceeds the amount of fine which a Magis-
trate may impose in the exercise of his
ordinary jurisdiction, and the amount so

4 recovered shall be paid into the Fund of the
Council.

Le on 247c (1) A Municipal Council may by
usinesses,  Tesolution impose and levy annually on
every person who, within the administra-
tive limits of such Council, carries on any
business for which no licence is necessary
under the provisions of this Ordinance or
any by-law made thereunder, or any tax is
ao payable under section 247B, a tax according
to the takings of the business for the year


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 5
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
preceding the year in which such tax is
Payable at such rates not exceeding the
Tates set out below :—
Cotumn I Column I
Where the takings of the Tax
business for the year— payable
Rs.
i (@) do not exceed Rs. 6,000 ND
(ii) exceed Rs. 6,000 but do
: not exceed Rs. 12,000 .. 90
. (iii) exceed Rs. 12,000 but do
not exceed Rs. 18,750. 180 A
(iv) exceed Rs. 18,750 but do
not exceed Rs. 75,000. 360
(v) exceed Rs. 75,000 but do
not exceed Rs, 150,000 .. 1,200

(vi) exceed Rs. 150,000. 3,000:

Provided however, that the preceding pro-
visions of this section shall not apply to
itinerant vendors who do not carry on busi-
ness at fixed places or do not for the pur-
Poses of such business establish them-
selves on the public roads or other public
place.

(2) The tax payable under subsection (1)
shall be payable on such date as may be
specified by the Council or prescribed by
by-law.

(8) If any person liable to pay the tax
leviable under this section fails to pay such
tax within seven days after demand, the
Council shall report such failure to the
Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over
the area in which such Council is situated.
The Court shall proceed to recover the
amount due as if it were a fine imposed by
Court, notwithstanding that such amount

. exceeds the amount of fine which a Magis-
trate may impose in the exercise of his
ordinary: jurisdiction, and the amount so
recovered by Court shall be paid into the
Fund of the Council.

2 ana coo


6 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

For the purposes of this section—

(a) “business” includes any trade of
profession or calling or the business
of a manufacturer, or of any person
taking commission or fees in res-
pect of any transaction or services
rendered or the business of an
inedpendent contractor, but does
not include the occupation of sell-
ing articles, goods or materials at a
private fair or the occupation of
maintaining any educational estab-
lishment or school to which grants
from State funds are paid or to
which such grants were earlier paid
but at present are not paid; and

(®) “takings” in relation to any business
means the total amount received or
receivable from transactions enter-
ed into in respect of that business

* or for services performed in carry-
ing on that business, and includes—

(a) in the case of a financier,
money-lender or pawn «
broker, the moneys given out
by him as loans, the interest
receive or receivable by him
‘on such loans, and the sums
received by him as fees or
other charges in respect of
such loans ;

(®) in the case of an auctioneer,
and subject to the provisions
of paragraph (c) in the case
of a broker or commission
agent—

(i) in respect of lands sold by
him or in the sale of
which he is instrumen-
tal, the commissions oF
fees received or
receivable by him for |
any ._ transactions
effected or services
rendered by him in
connection with such
sale;


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 7
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

(i) in respect of any goods

sold by him or in the

sale of which he is ins-

trumental the total

amount paid or payable

by the purchaser of
such goods ;

(c) in the case of any broker (other
than a share broker or a
produce broker), or commis-
sion agent, who—

. (@ on behalf of any person
not resident in Sri
Lanka, sells or is instru-
mental in selling any
goods of that non-
resident person, or

(ii) acts on behalf of an -
exporter of any goods
manufactured in Sri
Lanka, or

(ii) on behalf of any other
person carrying on a
business in Sri Lanka,
is instrumental in sell-
ing in Sri Lanka any
goods of that other
person, being goods the
total proceeds of the
sale of which is
included in the takings
of the business of that
other person,

the commissions or fees

received or receivable by such
broker or commission agent in
respect of any transactions
effected, or services rendered
by him in so selling, acting, or
in being instrumental in so
selling, and in the case of a
share broker or a produce
broker, the commissions or
fees received or receivable by
such broker or commission


a Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
' agent in respect of any tran-
saction effected or services
rendered by him ; and
(@) in the case of a person carrying
on any educational establish
ment or school, the total
amount, excluding profits
from ‘investment of the
moneys of the educational
establishment or school,
received or receivable by him
in carrying on such educa-
tional establishment or school,
but does not include any
amount received or receivable
by the sale of capital assets.
Tey Om weg 2470. (1) Where any land within the
Tan administrative limits of a Municipal Council
is suitable for building purposes, or for the
Purposes of permanent or regular cultivation,
or such land is capable of being developed
for any such purpose at a cost which would
in the opinion of the Council, be reasonable,
and where—
(a) no building has been erected on such
and ; or
(b) the extent of such land which is
actually covered by buildings bears
to the total extent of such land, a
Proportion less than the prescribed
Proportion ; or
(c) such land has not been subject to
regular or permanent cultivation,
the Council shall levy annually on the owner
of such land, a tax not exceeding two per
centum of the capital site value of such land.
(2) The provisions of sections 235 and 236
of the principal enactment shall, with the
necessary modifications, apply with respect
to every assessment of the capital site value
of land made under subsection (1).


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 9
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
For the purposes of this section, “capital
site value” when used in reference to any
land, means the probable price which would
be paid for the land, exclusive of all build-
ings thereon, if the land were sold in the
‘open market, free of all mortgages, leases,
encumbrances or other charges.
Tax on 247s. (1) Where any land within the
ae administrative limits of a Municipal Council
land is sold by public auction or otherwise, by an
auctioneer or broker or his servant or agent,
the vendor or such auctioneer or broker or
his servant or agent, shall pay to the Coun-
cil, from the proceeds of the sale of such
and, a tax equivalent to one per centum of
the amount of such proceeds.
(2) If the tax payable under subsection
(1) is not paid within fourteen days of
demand, the Council shall report such failure
to the Magistrate's Court and the Court shall
proceed to recover the amount due as if it
were a fine imposed by Court, notwithstand-
ing that such amount exceeds the amount of
fine which a Magistrate may impose in the
exercise of his ordinary jurisdiction, and the
amount so recovered by Court shall be paid
into the Fund of the Council.’,

& Section 255 of: the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended by the substitution for paragraph (a) thereof, of 58 of the
the following paragraph :— eoene.

“ (a) for costs on the issue of a warrant, a charge of—
() ten per centum on the amount of tax or rent :
due ;
(ii) fifteen per centum on the amount of rate due
on bare lands and residential premises ; and
(iii) twenty per centum on the amount of rate due
on properties other than bare lands and
residential premises ;”.


10 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
Amendment 7. Section 272 of the principal enactment is hereby
gigection amended by the insertion, immediately after paragraph
Ruactzent, (80), of the following new paragraph :—

“ (80) ‘Taxation, including the rendering of all
returns and information that may be required for the
purposes of any tax payable, or for the issue of any
licence, under this Ordinance.”

Amendment 8 Section 305 of the principal enactment is hereby
Srelaay amended in subsection (1) thereof, by the substitution for
principal all the words from “Where any licence is granted” upto
enactment. the words “or in any such by-law, and”, appearing in that
subsection, the word “Where”,
Amendment _ 9 The Second Schedule to the principal enactment is
of the, hereby amended as follows :—
Schedule (1) in paragraph 3 thereof, by the insertion immediately
principal after item (c), of the following new item :—
enactment,
“ (cc) being pawnbrokers on lincences issued under
section 3 of the Pawnbrokers Ordinance ;” 5
and
(2) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph 3
thereof, of the following new paragraph :—

“3a, All stamp duties paid under the Stamp Ordi-
nance in respect of transfers, mortgage bonds, gifts
and leases affecting any land situated within the
administrative limits of the Municipal Council. ”.

Replacement 40, ‘The Fourth Schedule to the principal enactment is
Fourth hereby repealed and the following new Schedule substituted
Schedule therefor :—
to the
principal
Snaciment, 4 (Section Fount ScHEDULE
Rs. Cts.
For every vehicle other than a motor car, motor
tricar, motor lorry, motor bicycle, cart, hand-
cart, jinricksha, bicycle, tricycle + BO
For every bicycle or tricycle or bicycle car or
cart, or tricycle car or cart—
(©) if used for trade purposes a 100
(®) if used for other than trade purposes .. 5 0
For every cart... Py + 200


‘Municipal Councils and Urban Councils a

(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
Rs. cts.

For every handeart ” + 100

For every jinricksha - + 750

For every horse, pony or mule .. - 60

For every elephant - + 500

Children’s vehicles the wheels of which do not exceed
26 inches in diameter, wheelbarrows, handcarts, used for
trade purposes solely within private premises, and hand-
carts not used for trade purposes are exempted from
payment. .

In this Schedule, “ trade purposes ” includes the carriage
or transport, in connexion with any business or trade and
whether for sale or otherwise, of any article or goods of
any written or printed matter’.

PART I

UL. Section 157 of the Urban. Councils Ordinance Amendment
(hereinafter in this Part referred to as the “principal of *ezton
enactment”) is hereby amended as follows :-— Chapter 255.

(i) by the insertion, immediately after paragraph (3), of

the following new paragraph :—

“ (Ba) The rendering of all returns and informa-
tion that may be required for the purposes of
the issue of any licence under this Ordinance.” ;

(ii) in paragraph (8) thereof, by the insertion,

immediately after sub-paragraph (e), of the

following new sub-paragraph :—

“ (ee) the levy of fees for the examination and
consideration of plans for new buildings or
for alterations to existing buildings ;” ; and

Gil) in paragraph (9) thereof; by the substitution for sub-

paragraph (f), of the following new sub-

paragraph :—

“(f) the abatement of nuisances, including the
regulation and control of the operation of
gramaphones, loud-speakers, amplifiers and
other instruments automatically or mechani-
cally producing or reproducing sound ;”.


12 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

‘Amendment 12, Section 160 of the principal enactment is hereby

g{veection amended by the addition, immediately after subsection (3)

principal, _—‘thereof, of the following new subsection :—

— “(4 The Council shall allow a discount of ten per

- eentum of the amount of any annual rate payable under
this section, if such rate is paid on or before the thirty-
first day of January of that year or where such rate is
payable in instalments the Council shall allow a discount
of five per centum of the amount of instalment of rate due
if such amount is paid within the first one month of the
period for which the instalment of rate is due.”.

Amendment 12 Section 163 of the principal enactment is hereby

giseation amended, by the substitution, for subsection (1) thereof, of

Te cbar® the following subsection :—

ocean ay “ (1) The tax on vehicles and animals which an Urban
Council is authorized to impose by section 162shall be an
annual tax in respect of all or any of the vehicles and
animals specified in the Third Schedule, and ordinarily
used or to be used within the town for which the Council
is constituted, and shall be the respective amounts
specified in that Schedule. ”.

‘Amendment 14. Section 164 of the principal enactment is hereby

qxgection” amended, by the substitution, for subsection (2) thereof,

wecbar® of the following subsection :—

Snactmnent , (2) ‘The amount of the licence duty shall be such as
may from time to time be determined by the Council,
according to the annual value of the premises to he
licensed :

Provided that where the annual value of such premises
falls within the limits of any item in Column I set out
below, the maximum duty shall not exceed the sum set
out in the corresponding entry in Column II:

Column I Column It
Where the annual value does not exceed Rs. 750° Rs, 500
Exceeds Rs, 750 but does not exceed Rs. 1,500... Rs. 750
Exceeds Rs. 1,500 on 2 Rs. 1,000

Provided further, that where any such premises are
used for the purposes of a hotel, restaurant or lodging
house, and such hotel, restaurant or lodging house
is registered with the Ceylon Tourist Board for the
purposes of the Tourist Development Act, No. 14 of 1968,
the duty so levied shall be according to the takings of the


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 13
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
hotel, restaurant or lodging house for the year preceding
the year in which the licence duty is levied, and shall not
exceed one per centum of such takings.

For the purposes of this section, “takings” in relation
to a hotel, restaurant or lodging house means the total
amount received or receivable from transactions entered
into in respect of that hotel, restaurant or lodging house or
for services performed in carring on that hotel, restaurant
or lodging house. ”,

15. The following new sections are hereby inserted Insertion
immediately after section 165, and shall have effect as 2.5%
sections 1654, 1658, 165c and 165p of the principal enact- 105A, 1658,
ment :— 168C' and

168D
“Te Sa. (1) An Urban Counefl may impose Bnei!
x on 1654, rban Council may imp incl
= and levy a tax on any trade carried on within “"actment
: the administrative limits of that Council.
(2) The tax levied under subsection (1)
shall be an annual tax determined by the
Council according to the annual value of the
premises on which that trade is carried on :
Provided that where the annual value of
such premises falls within the limits of any
ee item in Column I set out below, the tax
levied shall not exceed the sum set out in
‘ the corresponding entry in Column II:
fee Column I Column It
Where the annual value—
does not exceed Rs.750 .. Rs. 500
i exceeds Rs. 750 but does not
exceed Rs. 1,500 +. Rs. 750
exceeds Rs. 1,500 ++ Rs. 1,000
pote Provided further, that such tax shall not
. * pe leviable or payable in respect of any trade
for which a licence is necessary under the
provisions of this Ordinance or any by-law
soe" made thereunder. s
arainge (8) The tax levied under subsection (1)
shall be payable on such date as may be
determined by the Council or prescribed by
“7° "by-law, by the person who carries on such
aoe trade.


4 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
(4) If any person liable to pay the tax
leviable under this section fails to pay such
tax within seven days after demand, the
Council shall report such failure to the
Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over
the area in which such Council is situated.
The Court shall proceed to recover the
amount due as if it were a fine imposed by
Court, notwithstanding that such amount
exceeds the amount of fine which a Magis-
trate may impose in the exercise of his
ordinary jurisdiction, and the amount so
recovered shall be paid into the Fund of the
Council,
Tax on 1658. (1) An Urban Council may by
. Wisimesses, Tesolution impose and levy annually, on
every person who, within the administrative
limits of such Council, carries on any
business for which, no licence is necessary
under the provisions of this Ordinance or any
by-law made thereunder, or any tax is
payable under section 1654, a tax according
to the takings of the business for the year
preceding the year in which such tax is
payable at such rates not exceeding the rates
set out below :—
Column I Column I
‘Tax Payable
Where the takings of the
business per year—
(@) do not exceed Rs. 6,000... Nil
(i) exceed Rs. 6,000 but do ..
not exceed Rs. 12,000... Rs. 90
(iii) exceed Rs. 42,000 but
do not — exceed
Rs, 18,750 ae Rs, 180
(iv) exceed Rs. 18,750 but
do not — exceed
Rs. 75,000 a Bs. 360
(w) excéed Rs. 75,000 but
do not exceed
Rs, 150,000 ++ Rs. 1,200
(vi) exceed Rs. 150,000 ++ Rs. 3,000:


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 15
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

Provided however, that the preceding
provisions of this section shall not apply to
itinerant vendors who do not carry on
business at fixed places or do not for the
purposes of such business established them-
selves on the public roads or other public
places.

(2) The tax payable under subsection (1)
shall be payable on such date as may be
specified by the Council or prescribed by by-
law.

(8) If any person liable to pay the tax
Jeviable under this section fails to pay such
tax within seven days after demand, the
Council shall report such failure to the
Magistrate's Court having jurisdiction over
the area in which such Council is situated.
The Court shall proceed to recover the
amount due as if it were a fine imposed by
Court, notwithstanding that such amount
exceeds the amount of fine which a Magis-
trate may impose in the exercise of his
ordinary jurisdiction, and the amount so
recovered by Court shall be paid into the
Fund of the Council.

For the purposes of this section—

(q) “business” includes any trade or
profession or calling or the business
of a manufacturer, or of any person
taking commission or fees in respect
of any transaction or services
rendered or the business of an inde-
pendent contractor, but does not
include the occupation of selling
articles, goods or materials at a
private fair or the occupation of
maintaining any educational estab-

. lishment or school to which grants
from state funds are paid or to
which such grants were earlier paid
‘but at present are not paid ; and

(b) “takings” in relation to any business,
means the total amount relieved or
receivable from transactions entered
into in respect of that business or for


16 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979

services performed in carrying on

that business, and includes—

(a) in the case of financier, money-
lender or pawnbroker, the
moneys given out by him as
loans, the interest received or
receivable by him on such
loans, and the sums received
by him as fees or other
charges in respect of such
loans ;

(b) in the case of an auctioneer, and
subject to the provision of

P paragraph (c) in the case of

a broker or commission

agent—

(i) in respect of lands sold by
him or in the sale of
which he is instrumen-
tal, the commission or
fees received or receiva-
ble by him for any
transactions effected or
services rendered by
hhim in connection with
such sale ;

(ii) in respect of any goods
sold by him or in the
sale of which he is ins-
trumental the total
amount paid or payable

; by the purchaser of
such goods ;

(c) in the case of any broker (other
than a share broker or a
produce broker), or commis-
sion agent, who
(® on behalf of any person

not resident in Sri
Lanka, sells or is instru-
mental in selling any
goods of that non-resi-
dent person, or


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils ww
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
Gi) acts on behalf of an ex-
porter of any goods
manufactured in Sri
Lanka,or
(iii) on behalf of any other
person carrying on a
business in Sri Lanka,
is instrumental in sel-
ling in Sri Lanka any
goods of that other per-
son, being goods the
total proceeds of the
sale of which is inclu-
ded in the takings of
the business of that
other person,
the commissions or fees receiv-
ed or receivable by such
broker or commission agent in
respect of any transaction
effected, or services rendered
by him in so selling, acting, or
in being instrumental in so
selling, and in the case of a
share broker or a produce
broker, the commissions or
fees received or receivable by
such broker or commission
agent in respect of any trans-
. action effected or services ren-
dered by him ; and
(@) in the case of a person carrying
on any educational establish
ment or school, the total
amount, excluding profits
from investment of the
moneys of the educational
establishment or school,
received or receivable by him
in carrying on such educa-
tional establishment or school,
but does not include any
amount received or receivable
by the sale of capital assets.”


18 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
Tox on, 165c. (1) Where any land within the
padpveloped —saministrative limits of an Urban Council, is
suitable for building purposes, or for the
purposes of permanent or regular cultiva-
tion, or such land is capable of being deve-
loped for any such purpose at a cost which
would, in the opinion of the Council, be
reasonable, and where—
(@) no building has been erected on such
land;
() the extent of such land which is
actually covered by buildings bears
to the total extent of such land, a
proportion less than the prescribed
Proportion ; or
(c) such land has not been subject to
regular or permanent cultivation,
the Council shall levy annually, on the
owner of such land, a tax not exceeding two
per centum of the capital site value of such
Tend.

“(2) The provisions of sections 235 and 236
of the Municipal Councils Ordinance shall,
with the necessary modifications, apply with
Tespect to every assessment of the capital site
value of land, made under subsection (1).

For the purposes of this section, “ capital
site value” when used in reference to any

and, means the probable price which would
be paid for the land, exclusive of all build-
ings thereon, if the land were sold in the
open market, free of all mortgages, leases,
‘encumbrances or other charges.
eer 165p. (1) Where any land within the
maine nt administrative limits of an Urban Council is
Jand. sold by public auction or otherwise, by an
auctioneer or broker or his servant or agent,
‘the vendor or such auictioneer or broker oF
his servant or agent, shall pay to the Coun-
cil, from the proceeds of the sale of such
Jand, a tax equivalent to one per centum of
the amount of such proceeds.


Municipal Councils and Urban Councils 19
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
(2) If the tax payable under subsection
(2) is not paid within fourteen days of
demand, the Council shall report such
failure to the Magistrate's Court and the
Court shall proceed to recover the amount
due as if it were a fine imposed by Court,
notwithstanding that such amount exceeds
the amount of a fine which a Magistrate may
impose in the exercise of his ordinary juris-
diction and the amount so recovered by
Court shall be paid into the local fund of the
Council. ’.

16, The Third Schedule to the principal enactment is Replacement
hereby repealed and the following new Schedule substituted ‘Third
therefor :— fo the

principal
“ (Section Tam ScHEDuLE enactment,
163)
Rs. Cts
For every vehicle other than motor
car, motor triear, motor lorry,
motor bicycle, cart, hand cart,
Jinricksha, bicycle, tricycle .. 25 0
For every bicycle or tricycle or
bicycle car or cart—
(a) if used for trade purposes .. 10 0
(0) if used for other than trade A
purposes = BO
For every cart - 200
For every handcart + 100
For every jinricksha a)
For every horse, pony or mule .. 15 0
For every elephant + 500
Children’s vehicles the wheels of which do
not exceed 26 inches in diameter, wheel-
barrows, handcarts used for trade purposes.
solely within private premises, and hand-
carts not used for trade purposes are
exempted from payment.


20 Municipal Councils and Urban Councils
(Amendment) Act, No. 42 of 1979
In this Schedule, “trade purposes”
includes the carriage or transport, in
connection with any business or trade and
whether for sale or otherwise, of any articles
or goods or of any written or printed
matter.’,
Amendment 1%. The Fifth Schedule to the principal enactment is
ae hereby amended as follows :—
Schedule
to the (i) in paragraph 3 thereof, by the addition, immediately
Ronan after item (d) of sub-paragraph (1), of the follow-
ing item:—

“(e) as pawnbrokers, on licences issued under
section 3 of the Pawnbrokers Ordinance ;”;
and

(di) by the addition, immediately after paragraph 3 there-
of, of the following new paragraph :—
“4, All stamp duties paid under the Stamp

Ordinance in respect of transfers, mortgage bonds,

gifts and leases affecting any land situated within

the administrative limits of the Urban Council.”
