PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
!
: Ath Session 1968-69 Vea =
: he/ -
: ‘Ey (Shares 8?
Z ASL MeN
(e) ~
j Ne S]
:
Co-operative Societies
; (Temporary Provisions) Act,
| No. 43 of 1968
|
Date of Assent: November 24, 1968 :
Printed on the Orders of Government .
Printed at the Government Press, Cryton. To be |
Fema tocar Pinca Soca, Coens H
a ec cuding Bil) Te 49 acd), Ha @
agua! uberinen ost umeaanm Govan
oie Parte, bon Zon Covouae 1 tte 2h
eee ee eee ct he yeu ialoving ia
December ech Jo Hed on te sonton tht Bis
. issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.
Price : 30 cents Postage : 10 cents


i Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 48 of 1968

IL. D0. 20/67.

: AN AcT T0 KEEP IN FORCE CERTAIN ORDERS MADE BY
‘THE MINISTER UNDER SECTION 43 OF THE CO-OPERA-
tive Socteties ORDINANCE AS AMENDED BY

! EMERGENCY REGULATIONS MADE UNDER THE PUBLIC
Sgcurity ORDINANCE.

. [Date of Assent: November 24, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

; _ by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Co-operative Short tis
Societies (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 43 of 1968.

2. This Act shall come into operation on such date Date of
as the Minister may appoint by Order published in @Rexy>et
the Gazette.

8. Any Order made by the Minister under section Keeping alive
43 of the Co-operative Societies Ordinance, as modified ‘*#* Oren.
by the Emergency (Miscellaneous Provisions and
Powers) Regulations which were in eo. to the
date of the coming into operation of this Act, in
respect of any registered society, shall continue in
force for a relevant period, and’ shall during that
period be deemed to be an Order made under the said
section 43 as if that section has effect, in its applica-
tion in the case of such society and such society only,
subject to the following modifications :—

(1) as though there were substituted for sub-section

(1) of that section, the following sub-
section: —

“ (1) If the Minister is of the opinion that
the committee of any registered society is not
performing its duties properly, he may, by

rder in writing—
(a) dissolve the committee; and
(®) direct that the affairs of the society shall
be managed and administered by a
person or persons appointed as herein-
ih . after provided.”;
Fr aren9 3,748 (9169)


2 Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions)
Act, No. 43 of 1968

(2) as though there were substituted for sub-section
(2) of that section, the following sub-
section :—

“ (2) The Minister may, in his discretion,
by Order in writing from time to time extend >
the period specified in any Order heretofore
made by the Registrar, for such period as
the Minister may determine.” ;

(8) as though there were substituted for sub-section
(3) of that section, the following sub-
section :—

« (8) Where an Order is made under sub-
section (1), the Minister shall by the same or
subsequent Order appoint a fit and proper
person or two or more such persons to manage
and administer the affairs of the society, and
may from time to time—

(a) remove or replace any person so appointed
by him; or

(b) remove or replace any person heretofore
appointed by the Registrar to manage
and administer the affairs of the
society; or

(c) remove or replace any person so appointed
by the Minister in replacement of the
person referred to in paragraph (b) of
this sub-section. ””;

(4) as though there were substituted in sub-sections
(#) and (5) of that section, for the, word
“Registrar ”, the word “ Minister”;

(6) as though sub-section (7) of that section were
omitted therefrom; and

(6) as though there were inserted at the end of that
section, the following new sub-section :—

“ (9) The Minister may, by Order in writ-
ing, delegate any of his powers or functions
under this section to the Registrar.””.

Ioterprestion. In this Act—

(1) “‘ registered society” shall have the same
meaning as in the Co-operative Societies
Ordinance; |

(2) ‘relevant period”, in relation to any regis:
tered society, means .the period which
pommenced on the date on which-the Order


Co-operative Societies (Temporary Provisions) 3
Act, No. 48 of 1968

referred to in section 3 was made in respect
of such society and ends on the date of the
expiration of a period of four years reckoned
from such first-mentioned date, or on such
earlier date as the Minister may fix by Order
in writing in the case of such society.
