PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

REGISTERED STOCK AND SECURITIES(AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 2 OF 2004

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 6th January, 2004]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 10.75Postage : Rs. 4.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of January 9, 2004

1Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

Short title.

2H 0192965,650 (09/2003)

[Certified on 6th January, 2004]

L.D.O. 44/2003

AN ACT TO AMEND THE REGISTERED STOCK AND SECURITIESORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Registered Stock andSecurities (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2004.

2.(1)Section 5A of the Registered Stock and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) is hereby amended as follows :

(1)by the re-numbering of that section as subsection(1) of that section ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the re-numberedsubsection (1), of the following new subsection :

(2)Without prejudice to anything containedin this Ordinance particularly the provisions ofsections 21C, 21D, 21E, and 21F, the Central Bankshall regulate, supervise and monitor the primarydealers and the designated non-dealer bidders withrespect to their transactions in Treansury Bondsissued in the form of witten certificates..

3.Section 21A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

21A. (1)Every Treasury Bond shall, onbeing issued, bind the government to pay theprincipal sum for which the Bond is issued andthe interest thereon in accordance with theprovisions of this Ordinance, at the rate and onthe dates specified in the Order made in termsof section 4 or in pursuance of an option reservedin such Order to redeem such Bond :

Amendment ofsection 5A of theRegistered Stockand SecuritiesOrdinance(Chapter 420).

Replacement ofsection 21A ofthe principalenactment.TreasuryBonds.

2Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

Provided that, if the day on which suchpayment falls due is a day on which the CentralBank is not open for business, payment shallbe made in accordance with the procedure asmay be prescribed in that behalf.

(2)Notwithstanding any other provisionsof this Ordinance, treasury bonds may be issuedeither as bonds in the form of written certificatesor as Scripless Treasury Bonds..

4.Section 21C of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)in subsection (3) of that section

(a)by the repeal of paragraph (b) thereof and thesubstitution therefor of the followingparagraph :

(b) the period within which any sum due asprincipal, interest or redemptionproceeds if any, paid on scriplesstreasury bonds in such accounts shouldbe paid to customers or persons entitledthereto.;

(b)by the substitution in paragraph (e) of thatsubsection for the words pledged orencumbered. of the words pledged orencumbered;; and

(c)by the addition immediately after paragraph(e) of that subsection of the following newparagraph :

(f)the furnishing of information to theCentral Bank, the manner, means andperiods at which such information shallbe furnished to the Central Bank.;

Amendment ofsection 21C ofthe principalenactment.

3Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

(2)by the addition immediately after subsection (3) ofthat section of the following new subsections :

(4)The Central Bank may by Notificationpublished in the Gazette and in two local newspapersin the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, requirethe holder of Treasury Bonds issued in the form ofwritten certificates of a series to be specified in suchNotification, if they so desire to surrender such bondsfor conversion into Scripless Treasury Bonds inaccordance with such procedure as may beprescribed. Such Treasury Bonds shall uponconversion into Scripless Treasury Bonds be deemedto be Scripless Treasury Bonds issued under thisOrdinance.

(5)Nothing contained in subsection (4) shallbe construed as affecting or discharging the liabilityof the Government under this Ordinance to makepayment on a Treasury Bond issued in the form of awritten certificate belonging to a series specified ina Notification published under that subsection whichhas not been converted into a Scripless TreasuryBond in terms of such subsection..

5.Section 21D of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

21D.(1)The Central Bank may in writingappoint any primary dealer or other person tobe a direct participant who shall be entitled tomaintain accounts in respect of ScriplessTreasury Bonds as specified in subsection (2).

(2)A direct participant shall maintain in adepository referred to in the Monetary Law Act,Securities Accounts to hold Scripless TreasuryBonds and other scripless securities to whichsuch direct participant has title and to record

Amendment ofsection 21D ofthe principalenactment.

Directparticipants.

4Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

the interests of such direct participant inscripless treasury bonds and other scriplesssecurities in accordance with such rules andregulations made under the Monetary Law Act.

(3)The Central Bank shall pay to a directparticipant the sum due as the principal, interestand redemption proceeds, if any, on ScriplessTreasury Bonds in respect of which such directparticipant is recorded as owner in accountsmaintained by such direct participant undersubsection (2), on the day the sum due asprincipal, interest, or redemption proceeds, ifany, become payable.

(4)The Central Bank may inspect and takecopies of any books, records or accountsmaintained by a direct participant relating toor affecting any Scripless Treasury Bonds, heldin its own account or, in the case of a dealerdirect participant, with respect to its ownaccount as well as those held in customersaccounts. The direct participant or dealer directparticipant and its officers, directors,employees, servants and agents shall furnish tothe Central Bank, all such books, records,correspondence or any other documents as maybe required by the Central Bank, and shallprovide the Central Bank with all suchassistance as it may require to perform the dutiesimposed on the Central Bank by this Ordinancein respect of Scripless Treasury Bonds. Theprovisions of this subsection shall apply to anybooks, records, accounts and correspondencemaintained in an electronic form.

(5)In the event of the Governmentincurring any liability or making payment ofany sum due as principal, interest or redemption

5Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

proceeds with regard to Scripless TreasuryBonds, and where such liability arises or suchpayment is made in consequence, or by reason,of any default of a direct participant or a dealerdirect participant, such participant shall beliable on demand by the Government, toindemnify the Government with respect to suchliability or payment.

For the purpose of this subsection defaultincludes

(a)any negligance or failure on the partof a direct participant or a dealer directparticipant in the carrying out of anyfunction, or the discharging of anyduty, assigned to, or imposed on, himby this Ordinance or by any other lawin relation to any matter dealt with bythis Ordinance ; and

(b)any act or omission on the part of adirect participant or dealer directparticipant which constitutes anoffence under this Ordinance or anyother written law in relation to anymatter dealt with by this Ordinance :

(i)whether or not there has beenany prosecution in respect ofsuch offence ; or

(ii)whether such act or omissionwas by the direct participant,or the dealer direct participant,or by any director, officer,employee or agent of suchdirect participant or dealerdirect participant.'.

6Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

6.Section 21E of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsections (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7),(8) and (9) of that section and the substitution therefor, of thefollowing subsections :

(2)A dealer direct participant shall, inaddition to maintaining the accounts requiredto be maintained under subsection (2) of section21D, maintain in a depository referred to in theMonetary Law Act, accounts in respect of eachof its customers to hold Scripless Teasury Bondsand other scripless securities to which each suchcustomer has title and to record interests of eachsuch customer in Scripless Treasury Bonds andother scripless securities in accordance withsuch rules and regulations made under theMonetary Law Act.

(3)The Central Bank shall pay to a dealerdirect participant, in addition to the paymentsreferred to in subsection (3) of section 21D, thesum due as principal, interest, and redemptionproceeds, if any, on Scripless Treasury Bondsin respect of which a customer of such dealerdirect participant is recorded as owner inaccounts maintained by such dealer directparticipant under subsection (2), on the day thesum due as principal interest or redemptionproceeds if any, become payable.

(4)No person other than a dealer directparticipant may transact in Scripless TreasuryBonds on behalf of any other person. Anyperson, other than a direct participant and theCentral Bank desiring either to make a transferor to take a transfer of Scripless Treasury Bonds,shall do so only through a dealer directparticipant.

Amendment ofsection 21E ofthe principalenactment.

7Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

(5)A dealer direct participant shallmaintain books and records to enable it toperform and discharge its duties and functionsunder this Ordinance and to discharge itsobligations to its customers and shall complywith directions, if any, issued by the Central Bankfor such purpose.

(6)Upon receipt by a dealer directparticipant of any amount by way of paymentfrom the Central Bank in terms of subsection(3) in respect of Scripless Treasury Bonds heldin a customer account, the dealer directparticipant shall pay such amount, within thetime specified in any direction issued by theCentral Bank, to the customer or to any otherparty entitled to such payment by law or interms of a written agreement to which the dealerdirect participant and the customer are party.

(7)If a dealer direct participant is unablefor any reason to effect payment to a customeror to a party entitled to payment in terms ofsubsection (6), within the time specified indirections issued by the Central Bank, the dealerdirect participant shall within such period asmay be specified in such directions, transferthe sum remaining unpaid to a prescribedaccount of the Central Bank and shall providethe Central Bank with such information as maybe required by the Central Bank with regard tothe payment and the customer or other party, asthe case may be.

(8)The sums of money transferred to aprescribed account of the Central Bank in termsof subsection (7) shall be paid to personsentitled thereto and any monies lyingunclaimed shall be dealt with or disposed of,by the Central Bank in such manner as may beprescribed by regulations.

8Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

(9)A dealer direct participant shall exceptto the extent required for the proper conduct ofits business and administration, maintainconfidentiality in respect of accountsmaintained for a customer and any matterconnected therewith and shall not disclose toany person other than to the Central Bank, anyinformation relating to an account of a customerunless authorised to do so in writing by thecustomer, or except where it is required to do sounder any law or by an order of court.

(10)Subject to the provisions of anyapplicable written law, a dealer directparticipant shall be wholly responsible andliable to customers in respect of all transferstaken or made by such customer through suchdealer direct participant..

7.Section 21F of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

21F.(1)Where a transfer of title to aScripless Treasury Bond is made by a dealerdirect participant from or into an accountmaintained for a customer under subsection (4)of section 21E or an interest of any customer ina Scripless Treasury Bond is recorded or anyamendment or variation is made in respect ofany such interest in any Scripless Treasury Bondin such account, such dealer direct participantshall issue to such customer a confirmation inaccordance with such directions as may fromtime to time be issued by the Central Bank.

(2)The provisions of subsection (1) shallnot be construed as derogating from anyobligation imposed under the Monetary LawAct on the provider of depository facilities for

Replacement ofsection 21F ofthe principalenactment.Transfer ofScriplessTreasuryBonds.

9Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

scripless securities, to issue statements orconfirmations in respect of accounts maintainedin such depository and in the event of anyconflict or inconsistency between a statementor confirmation so issued by the depository andthe statement or confirmation issued undersubsection (1), the statement or confirmationissued by the depository shall prevail.

(3) The confirmation referred to insubsection (1) shall not be capable of beingnegotiated and shall be used solely as evidenceof dealings between the dealer direct participantwho issued it and the customer in respect of theScripless Treasury Bond to which it relates.

(4) The Central Bank may permit anynotification, confirmation, acknowledgment orreceipt required under this section to be issuedin a non-written form and to be transmitted ordelivered by wire, telephone, satellite, cable orany other such electronic, magnetic or opticalmedia, as may be specified by the Central Bank.

(5) An electronic record of a ScriplessTreasury Bond, or any confirmation, notice,acknowledgment, receipt or other document orrecord issued or maintained for the purposes ofthis Ordinance in an electronic form shall notbe denied legal effect, validity, orenforceability solely on the ground that suchscripless treasury bond is maintained in anelectronic form or that such confirmation,notice, acknowledgement receipt or otherdocument or record is issued or maintained inelectronic form and such confirmation, notice,acknowledgment, receipt or other documentmay be tendered in evidence in proceedingsbefore any court or tribunal in accordance with

10Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

Parts II and III of the Evidence (SpecialProvisions) Act, No. 14 of 1995 or any otherlaw for the time being in force in relation to thetendering of computer evidence before anycourt or tribunal..

8.Section 51 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) ofthat section of the following new subsection :-

(1A) The provisions of subsection (1) shallnot preclude the Registrar or the Central Bankfrom recognizing Treasury Bonds held in trustfor customers by primary dealers or otherauthorized persons in accordance withdirections issued from time to time by the CentralBank..

9.Section 55 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the insertion immediately after subsection (2) ofthat section of the following new subsection :-

(2A) The Scripless Treasury Bonds issuedunder this Ordinance shall be transferred,pledged, encumbered, lent, borrowed orotherwise transacted in, as provided byregulations and any transfer, pledge,encumbrance, loan, borrowing or any othertransaction effected accordingly shall be validand effectual notwithstanding any other lawrelating to such transactions in Treasury Bondsissued in the form of written certificates..

10.Section 56A of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution therefor of the following subsections :-

(2) Any person guilty of an offence underthis Ordinance shall be liable on convictionafter summary trial before a Magistrate, to

Amendment ofsection 51 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 55 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 56A ofthe principalenactment.

11Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

imprisonment for a term not exceeding fiveyears or to a fine not exceeding ten millionrupees or where the offence has resulted inmonetary loss or monetary gain or a loss or gainwhich is quantifiable in monetary terms to anyperson, to a fine equivalent to twice the valueof such loss or gain or to both suchimprisonment and fine.

(3) The Central Bank may, with the consentof Court, having regard to the circumstances inwhich an offence under this Act was committedcompound such offence for a sum of money notexceeding rupees five million, or where theoffence has resulted in monetary loss ormonetary gain or a loss or gain which isquantifiable in monetary terms, to any person,for a sum of money equivalent to one and a halftimes the value of such loss or gain.

(4) The compounding of an offence underthis section shall have the effect of an acquittal..

11.Section 58 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :-

(1)by the substitution for the definition of theexpression customer of the following definition-

customer in relation to a dealer direct participantmeans any person who purchases or sells orotherwise acquires or disposes of ScriplessTreasury Bonds or an interest therein throughsuch dealer direct participant or who negotiateswith such dealer direct participant for thepossible acquisition or disposition of suchbond or interest and shall include where thecontext so permits a legal representative ofsuch customer or of the estate of suchcustomer ;;

Amendment ofthe section 58 ofthe principalenactment.

12Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

(2)by the addition immediately after the definition ofthe expression interdealer broker of the followingnew definitions-

Monetary Law Act means the Monetary Law Act(Chapter 422) as amended from time to timeand shall include any enactment that replacessuch Act in relation to the matters containedtherein, and where any section is specificallyreferred to in this Ordinance the reference shallbe taken to include the corresponding sectionsin the subsequent enactment ; ;

securities account shall have the same meaningas in the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422)..

12.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

13Registered Stock and Securities (Amendment)Act, No. 2 of 2004

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32,TRANSWORKS HOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respectof the year following.