PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENTACT, NO. 33 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

2PL 014556480 (05/2024)

[Certified on 18th of June, 2024]

L. D.- O. 66/2023

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT INCLUDING THE

AUTHORISATION TO BORROW, TO ISSUE AND TO SERVICE PUBLIC

DEBT AND ISSUING GUARANTEES, ON-LENDING, ENTER INTO

SUPPLIERS CREDIT AND FINANCE LEASE AGREEMENTS; FOR THE

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT OFFICE AND

FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows: -

1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Public DebtManagement Act, No. 33 of 2024.

(2) The provisions of this Act other than this section,shall come into operation on such date as the Minister mayby Order published in the Gazette appoint (in this Act referredto as the appointed date).

(3) The provisions of this section shall come intooperation on the date on which the Bill becomes an Act ofParliament.

(4) The appointed date shall be a date not later than aperiod of six months from the date on which the provisionsof this section come into operation.

2. This Act shall apply to the following entities: -

(a)Ministries, Departments, District Secretariats ofthe Government, and Special Spending Units;

(b) statutory funds and trusts to which publicfinance is allocated with the approval of theParliament;

(c)State-owned enterprises;

(d)Provincial Councils, Ministries, Departments,other institutions coming under the ProvincialCouncils and local authorities; and

(e)any other entity.

Short title anddate ofoperation

Application ofthis Act

2Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

Establishment ofthe Public DebtManagementOffice ofSri Lanka

3. Public debt management is the process of establishingand executing a medium term to long term strategy formanaging public debt with the following objectives:

(a)to meet financing needs and debt paymentobligations on a timely basis;

(b)to borrow at the lowest costs as possible over themedium term to long term, consistent with a prudentdegree of risk; and

(c)to promote the development of the domestic debtsecurities market.

PART I

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE PUBLIC DEBT MANAGEMENT OFFICE

4. There shall be established an office called the PublicDebt Management Office (hereinafter referred to as theOffice) within the Ministry of Finance which shall beresponsible for the

(a)management of the debt of the Government;

(b) issuance and management of loan guarantees;

(c)management of on-lending operations; and

(d)recording and reporting of public debt.

5. (1) There shall be a Director-General appointed by theCabinet of Ministers.

(2) The Director-General shall be the head of the Officeand be responsible for the overall operations of the Office.

(3) The terms and conditions of employment includingremuneration for all employees of the Office shall bedetermined by the prevailing Government regulations asmay be applicable from time to time.

Public debtmanagementobjectives

Director-Generalof the Office

3Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

6. The Office shall exercise and perform the followingpowers and functions subject to the provisions of section 3:-

( a)preparation and publication of

(i)the medium-term debt management strategy;

(ii)the annual borrowing plan; and

(iii)auction calendars for the issuance ofGovernment securities;

(b)negotiation of financial terms and conditions andexecution of domestic and external borrowings,other credit arrangements and debt managementactivities of the Government:

Provided that, the Governments externalborrowings from bilateral and multilateral agenciesshall be executed in coordination with theDepartment in charge of the subject of ExternalResources of the Treasury;

(c)maintenance of relationships, as necessary forachieving and maintaining access to financialmarkets;

(d)coordination of debt operations in relation to cashflow management with the Department in charge ofthe subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;

(e)preparation and execution of debt related liabilitymanagement operations;

(f)assessment of the credit risk and advise on riskmitigation mechanism of loan guarantees and on-lending operations;

(g)recording, reporting, dissemination and publicationof public debt, loan guarantees, on-lending,suppliers credit and finance lease in accordancewith this Act;

Powers andfunctions of theOffice

4Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(h)servicing of the debt of the Government on a timelybasis in accordance with this Act;

(i)preparation of debt service forecasts based on bothpresent and forecasted debt of the Government; and

(j)any other function, the Minister may assign incarrying out the objectives under section 3.

7. The Minister may issue to the Office, such guidelinesor directions in writing as are not inconsistent with theprovision of this Act, relating to the policy to be followed inthe exercise and performance of the powers and functions ofthe Office.

PART II

PUBLIC DEBT COORDINATING COMMITTEE

8. (1) There shall be a Public Debt CoordinatingCommittee appointed by the Minister (hereinafter referredto as the Committee) to coordinate at policy level,consisting of

(a)the Deputy Secretary to the Treasury who shall actas the Chairperson;

(b)the Director-General of the department in charge ofthe subject of Treasury Operations of the Treasury;

(c)the Director-General of the department in charge ofthe subject of Fiscal Policy of the Treasury;

(d)the Director-General of the department in charge ofthe subject of External Resources of the Treasury;

(e)the Director-General of the department in charge ofthe subject of National Budget of the Treasury;

Powers of theMinister to issueguidelines anddirections

Establishmentof the PublicDebtCoordinatingCommittee

5Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(f)the Director-General of the department in charge ofthe subject of Public Enterprises of the Treasury;

(g)two officers of the Central Bank not below the rankof Director nominated by the Governor of the CentralBank; and

(h)the Director-General of the Office.

(2) The Director-General of the Office shall nominate asenior officer of the Office to be the Secretary and theConvener of the Committee.

(3) The Committee shall meet at least once in every month.

9. The powers, duties and functions of the Committeeshall be to:

(a)review and opine on the debt management strategyand its updates prepared by the Office, ensuring theconsistency of the debt management strategy withmacroeconomic policies;

(b)review and opine on the annual borrowing planand its performance;

(c)review domestic and international marketconditions and provide recommendations on therisk associated with public debt and opportunitiesin the market and on official developmentassistance; and

(d)perform such other functions as may be assigned toit by the Minister for the purposes of achieving theobjectives under section 3.

10. (1) The quorum of the Committee shall be fivemembers.

(2) A meeting of the Committee may be held either

Powers, dutiesand functions ofthe Committee

Quorum andmeetings of theCommittee

6Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(a)by the number of members who constitute a quorumbeing assembled at the place, date and timeappointed for the meeting; or

(b)by means of audio-visual communication by whichall members participating and constituting aquorum can simultaneously see and hear eachparticipating member for the duration of the meeting.

PART III

GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND DEBT MANAGEMENT

11. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 3, a mediumterm debt management strategy (hereinafter referred to asthe strategy) for the management of the debt of theGovernment shall be formulated and updated annually on arolling five year horizon by the Office.

(2) Such strategy shall be reviewed by the Minister andsubmitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its final approval.The Central Bank shall be given an opportunity to providewritten comments on the draft strategy before the approvalof the Cabinet of Ministers is granted.

(3) The approved strategy shall be aligned with themedium term fiscal framework and published in the officialwebsites of the Ministry of Finance and of the Office andtabled in Parliament not later than the second reading of theAppropriation Bill of the year for which the strategy isprepared as an accompanying document of the AnnualBudget Document.

(4) For the purposes of achieving the objectives undersection 3, the strategy formulated and updated annually ona rolling five year horizon under subsection (1), constitutesthe upcoming financial year and four succeeding financialyears and shall take into account the following:

Debtmanagementstrategy

7Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(a)the cost and risk embedded in the current publicdebt portfolio and outstanding derivativetransactions;

(b)future borrowing requirements;

(c)the medium term fiscal framework;

(d)market conditions; and

(e)such other factors as may be relevant for thepreparation of the strategy.

(5) The approved strategy shall be reviewed and updatedat least annually by the Office. The updated strategy shallbe submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for approval andpublished in the official websites of the Ministry of Financeand of the Office thereafter.

(6) All borrowings and other debt management operationsshall be in line with the strategy.

12. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Ministerhas the sole authority to borrow and issue debt securitieswithin or outside Sri Lanka in local or foreign currencies onbehalf of the Government of Sri Lanka.

(2) Debt of the Government of Sri Lanka shall be chargedon the Consolidated Fund.

13. (1) The purposes for which the Government mayborrow are

(a)to finance any deficit in the annual Governmentbudget approved by Parliament;

(b)to manage cash flow including to build up andmaintain a liquidity buffer at a level or at a rangedetermined by the Minister;

(c)to lend funds to Provincial Councils, localauthorities, State owned enterprises and any otherentity as may be approved by Parliament;

Borrowingauthorization

Borrowingpurposes

8Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(d)to honour obligations under called Governmentguarantees;

(e)to refinance outstanding debt of the Government,including repayment of a loan or credit prior to itsmaturity date and repurchase of Government debtsecurities;

(f)to immediately respond to effects of unforeseencircumstances caused by a catastrophic emergency,in cases where the additional expenditure cannotbe funded through virement procedures or throughan allocation from the annual budget reserve orother similar mechanisms to make in-yearadjustments to the annual budget as providedpursuant to relevant legislation for public financialmanagement or through the Contingencies Fundunder Article 151 of the Constitution;

(g)to finance any expenditure that may arise underparagraphs (3) and (4) of Article 150 of theConstitution;

(h)to support the balance of payments of Sri Lanka byreplenishing its foreign currency reserves; and

(i)for any other purpose as may be approved byParliament.

(2) Where borrowing is for any of the purposes ofparagraph (f) of subsection (1), the Minister shall as soon aspracticable but not later than fifteen working days after theconclusion of such borrowing, inform Parliament of the termsand conditions of the borrowing.

14. (1) At the request of the Central Bank, the Governmentmay issue debt securities for the sole purpose of supportingthe implementation of the monetary policy objectives.

Issuance ofGovernmentdebt securitiesfor theimplementationof the monetarypolicy objectives

9Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(2) Where debt securities are issued under subsection (1),the proceeds from the issuance of the debt securities shall bedeposited in a segregated account of the Central Bank andshall be used exclusively to redeem those debt securities.

(3) Any Cost to the Government resulting from theissuance of such debt securities shall be fully reimbursed bythe Central Bank.

(4) These issuances shall not be subject to any borrowinglimits and their outstanding values shall be recorded inthe debt stock and reported in the annual report as a separateitem under section 25.

(5) The responsibilities and procedure relating to theissuance of debt securities under this section shall bestipulated under a memorandum of understanding betweenthe Minister on behalf of the Government and the CentralBank and comply with the provisions of the Central Bank ofSri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023.

15. (1) The Office shall prepare a borrowing plan for eachfinancial year (in this Act referred to as the borrowing plan)to meet the aggregate borrowing requirement in accordancewith the Appropriation Act for any given year. Suchborrowing plan shall be reviewed at least half yearly.

(2) The borrowing plan shall take account of thedetermined strategy, annual gross borrowing ceiling andthe cash flow forecast for the Government and include

(a)planned borrowings and other debt managementoperations over the year;

(b)tentative instruments to be used and sources ofborrowing; and

(c)indicative timing of these operations.

Annualborrowing plan

10Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(3) The borrowing plan and its updates shall be preparedin consultation with the relevant Departments of the Treasuryand the relevant Government agencies as decided by theSecretary to the Treasury and shall be submitted for theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(4) The Minister shall table the borrowing plan inParliament not later than the second reading of theAppropriation Bill, as an accompanying document of theAnnual Budget Document, and shall arrange for the separatepublication of the borrowing plan document by the end ofthe financial year preceding the year for which the borrowingplan is prepared. The updated borrowing plan if any, shallbe submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval andpublished in the official websites of the Ministry of Financeand of the Office.

16. (1) Issuance of Government debt securities in thedomestic market by the Office shall either be by way ofauction in accordance with the auction calendar or any othermarket based mechanism.

(2) The auction calendar shall be published in the websitesof the Ministry of Finance and of the Office at least twoweeks prior to the first issuance date planned under theauction calendar and shall cover a minimum of three calendarmonths on rolling basis from the date of its publication.

(3) On the recommendation of the Minister and with theapproval of the Cabinet of Ministers, Government debtsecurities may be issued in the domestic market by way ofnon-market based mechanisms.

17. The Minister on the recommendation of the Officeand on such terms and conditions approved by the Cabinetof Ministers may borrow from banks, other financialinstitutions, sovereign lenders or any other person orinstitution through loan agreements or obtaining advancesby overdraft.

Issuance ofGovernmentdebt securities inthe domesticmarket

Borrowingdirectly by theGovernment

11Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

18. (1) The Minister or any other person speciallyauthorised in writing by the Minister on behalf of theGovernment may, in accordance with the provisions ofsection 3 and the strategy, undertake liability managementoperations including

(a)interest rate and currency swaps and otherderivatives used as hedges against the financialrisks embedded in the Governments debt portfolio,having considered it prudent to do so for the purposeof effective public debt management;

(b)buybacks and exchanges of Government debtsecurities; and

(c)offering of early repayment of a loan prior to itsdate of maturity.

(2) Transactions related to liability managementoperations shall not be subject to any gross or net issuancelimit stipulated in the annual budget and shall comply withthe debt reduction objective pursuant to relevant legislationon fiscal responsibility and public financial management.

PART IV

GOVERNMENT LOAN GUARANTEES, GOVERNMENT ON-LENDING,SUPPLIERS CREDIT AGREEMENTS AND FINANCE LEASE AGREEMENTS

19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Ministershall have the sole authority for the issuance and managementof loan guarantees including the collection of loan guaranteefees on behalf of the Government in respect of obligationsof a Provincial Council, local authority, State ownedenterprise or any other entity:

Liabilitymanagementoperations

Governmentloan guarantees

12Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

Provided that, the Minister shall take into considerationthe following when issuing such loan guarantees: -

(a)the borrower is not in any financial difficulty basedon a credit risk assessment;

(b)the loan guarantee is deemed to promote economicdevelopment of Sri Lanka; and

(c)the loan guarantee shall be subject to the debtreduction objective in relation to the relevantwritten law on fiscal responsibility and publicfinancial management.

(2) The issuance of loan guarantees in respect ofobligations of any other entity other than ProvincialCouncils, local authorities or State owned enterprises shallbe further subject to the approval of Parliament.

(3) Where the borrower is deemed to be in financialdifficulty based on the credit risk assessment, the guaranteeshall not be issued.

(4) Prior to submitting the issuance of a loan guarantee tothe Cabinet of Ministers for approval, the Office shall assessand price the credit risk to the Government from suchguarantee and recommend the risk mitigation mechanismincluding guarantee fees.

(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used inthe assessment and the proposed risk mitigation mechanismshall be submitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for itsapproval.

(6) Each loan guarantee shall be supported by relevantlegal documentation executed by the borrower whichincludes provisions that agree to among others to repay anyamount paid under the guarantee if called with interest asmay be prescribed and to fully disclose any informationrequested by the Office.

13Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(7) In the event that the borrower neglects or fails to makegood on its obligations under the loan guarantee agreement,the Minister shall have the right to pursue any actionnecessary to recover from the borrower any money owed tothe Government under such loan guarantee agreement.

20. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Ministershall have the sole authority to on-lend Government fundsto a Provincial Council, local authority, State ownedenterprise or any other entity:

Provided that, the Minister shall take into considerationthe following when on-lending such Government funds: -

(a)the borrower is not in any financial difficulty basedon a credit risk assessment; and

(b)the on-lending is deemed to promote economicdevelopment of Sri Lanka.

(2) The on-lending funds in respect of obligations of anyother entity other than Provincial Councils, local authoritiesor State owned enterprises shall be further subject to theapproval of Parliament.

(3) Where the borrower is deemed to be in financialdifficulty, based on the credit risk assessment the on-lendingtransaction shall not take place.

(4) Prior to submitting the on-lending of Governmentfunds to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval, the Officeshall, assess and price the credit risk to the Government inproviding such loan and recommend the level of interestrate to cover the funding cost, any currency risk and thecredit risk to the Government.

On-lending

14Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(5) The result of the risk assessment, the method used inthe assessment and the proposed interest rate shall besubmitted to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval.

(6) The borrower shall pay an interest at the rate asapproved by the Cabinet of Ministers on therecommendation of the Office that covers the funding cost,currency risk and the credit risk to the Government.

(7) Each on-lending transaction shall be supported byrelevant legal documentation executed by the borrower andshall include an agreement to service its debt obligations ondue dates and other terms and conditions including a clauseon penal interest in the event the borrower neglects or failsto honour any payment obligations.

21. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Ministershall have the sole authority to enter into suppliers creditagreements for procurement of capital goods or constructionor maintenance for public investment projects on behalf ofthe Government.

(2) Suppliers credit agreements that come under thepurview of the Office shall be as prescribed. Prior to enteringinto such agreements, the Office shall assess the cost incurredby the Government in entering into such agreements andsend the recommendation to the Minister or to the personspecially authorized by the Minister.

22. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Ministershall have the sole authority to enter into finance leaseagreements on behalf of the Government.

Suppliers Creditagreementsentered into bythe Government

Finance leaseagreementsentered into bythe Government

15Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(2) Finance lease agreements that come under the purview

of the Office and the form, terms and duration of such

agreements shall be as prescribed. Prior to entering into such

agreements, the Office shall assess their cost to the

Government and send the recommendation to the Minister

or to the person specially authorised by the Minister.

PART V

RECORDS AND PUBLICATION OF PUBLIC DEBT AND FINANCEARRANGEMENTS

23. (1) The Office shall maintain records of timely,

comprehensive and accurate data and information of

(a)outstanding public debt;

(b)suppliers credit agreements;

(c)finance lease agreements;

(d)derivative transactions;

(e)loan guarantees; and

(f)on-lending operations,

in an appropriate database.

(2) In carrying out the functions under this section, the

Office shall have the power to request from entities under

Records ofPublic debt andfinancearrangements

16Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

section 2, data and information concerning outstanding loanguarantees and on-lending, credit institutions coming underon-lending and non guaranteed debt and such otherinformation as may be required under this Act.

24. The Office shall no later than sixty days from the endof each quarter, prepare and publish a quarterly statisticaldebt bulletin on public debt that provides accurate andtimely information on, among others -

(a)aggregate debt stock, debt flows, debt service cost,and redemption profile and risk measures of thedebt portfolio and any new borrowing of theGovernment;

(b)details of derivatives;

(c)details of loan guarantees;

(d)aggregate of non-guaranteed debt stock of Stateowned enterprises, Provincial Councils and localauthorities;

(e)details of on-lending facilities provided by theGovernment under section 20;

(f)details of suppliers credit agreements entered intoby the Government under subsection (2) ofsection 21;

(g)details of finance lease agreements entered into bythe Government under subsection (2) of section 22;and

(h)the outstanding values of issuances of debtsecurities for the purpose of supporting theimplementation of monetary policy objectivesunder section 14.

Publication ofPublic debt andfinancearrangements

17Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

PART VI

ANNUAL REPORTING TO PARLIAMENT

25. (1) The Office shall for each year prepare an annualreport on Government borrowings and other debtmanagement operations, outstanding public debt, guaranteesand on-lending activities and other finance arrangementsentered into over the previous financial year.

(2) The annual report shall include

(a) information on the strategy referred to in section11 and its rationale;

(b) information on the contribution of the strategyand the borrowing plan, their execution inachieving the debt management objectives asstated in section 3 and the rationale for anydeviations;

(c) debt disbursements and related debt services ofthe Government presented including by type ofcreditor and instrument;

(d) a list of the outstanding loan guarantees of theGovernment, issued to Provincial Councils, localauthorities, State owned enterprises and any otherentity including the amount;

(e) a list of loans on-lent including outstandingamounts;

(f) outstanding suppliers credit agreements andfinance lease agreements which comes under thepurview of the Office including the financial termsof those contracts;

Annual report ofthe Office toParliament

18Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(g) information on any debt service arrears of theGovernment; and

(h) any other information related to public debtmanagement.

(3) The Minister shall review the draft annual report andsubmit it to the Cabinet of Ministers for its approval andtable the approved annual report before Parliament not laterthan hundred and eighty days following the end of thepreceding financial year and publish such approved annualreport in the official websites of the Ministry of Finance andthe Office.

PART VII

BORROWING AND ISSUANCE OF GUARANTEES BY STATE OWNED

ENTERPRISES AND REPORTING BY PROVINCIAL COUNCILS, LOCALAUTHORITIES AND STATE OWNED ENTERPRISES

26. (1) Any public issue of debt securities and any raisingof funds denominated in foreign currency by a State ownedenterprise shall comply with the debt reduction objectivepursuant to any law for the time being in force relating tofiscal responsibility and public financial management andshall require prior written approval of the Minister.

(2) The approval of the Minister under subsection (1)shall be accompanied by an assessment of the proposed debtbased on the debt reduction objective, the current andprojected fiscal, financial and debt environment. The criteriafor assessment, the procedure and such other matterspertinent to the assessment may be as prescribed.

(3) For the purpose of obtaining approval for the publicissue of debt securities and raising of funds under subsection(1), State owned enterprises shall submit to the Office allterms and conditions for each of these planned borrowingsand a copy of the debt contract after the borrowing has takenplace.

Borrowing andissuance ofguarantees toand by Stateownedenterprises

19Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(4) Any issuance of guarantees to and by a State ownedenterprise shall require the prior written approval of theMinister.

27. A State owned enterprise shall submit to the Office arecord of its outstanding debt not later than forty five daysafter the end of each quarter and shall upon a request madeunder section 23, submit to the Office such information anddata on its total outstanding debt including the nonguaranteed debt as it may specify.

28. Each Provincial Council and local authority shallsubmit to the Office a record of its outstanding debt,including the outstanding non guaranteed debt, not laterthan forty five days after the end of each quarter.

PART VIII

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

29. (1) Every entity referred to in section 2 shall furnishinformation required by this Act to the Office within theperiod and in the form specified by the Office.

(2) Any public officer or a governing body of an entityreferred to in section 2, to whom the exercise of the powers,discharge of the duties and the performance of the functionsof the entity are assigned is required to furnish informationunder subsection (1) -

(a) makes any false or misleading statement ordeclaration or gives any misleading informationfor any statement, declaration or informationrequired to be made or given under this Act orregulation made thereunder;

(b) resists or obstructs the duties and functions of theOffice; or

Reportingrequirements ofState ownedenterprises

Reportingrequirements ofProvincialCouncils andlocal authorities

Obligation toprovideinformation

20Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(c) fails or refuses to furnish any information,document, report or material within the specifiedperiod unless prohibited by any other law for thetime being in force,

commits an offence and upon conviction by a competentcourt be liable to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousandrupees or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding threemonths.

30. (1) When the disclosure of information contained inadministrative acts, contracts, agreements or documentationrelated to the issuance, placement or repurchase ofGovernment debt securities, could generate losses orconditions unfavourable to the interests of the Government,the respective administrative acts, contracts, agreements ordocumentation may be declared secret and reserved by theOffice, until the information prior to the auction or respectivetransaction is provided in the market in the case of placementand repurchase. Immediately thereafter, all information shallbe published.

(2) Any person who is involved in the implementation ofthe provisions of this Act and thereby becomes aware of, orhas access to, information about intended activities or publicdebt operations, of which information the person knows areof confidential nature or should reasonably suspect, isobliged to maintain the confidentiality of such information,except to the extent that a legal obligation shall require thecommunication of such information prior to the intendedactivities or public debt operations.

(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions ofsubsection (1) or subsection (2) commits an offence andshall on conviction by a competent court, be liable to a finenot exceeding twenty five thousand rupees or to a term ofimprisonment not exceeding three months or to both suchfine and imprisonment.

Protection ofmarket-sensitiveinformation

21Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

PART IX

GENERAL

31. (1) The Minister may, where he considers it expedientto do so, appoint issuing agents, process agents, and otheragents and the office shall have the authority to regulate,supervise and monitor such agents as may be prescribed.

For the avoidance of doubt, the power specified in thissubsection includes the appointment of process agents, inthe event where any legal disputes may be tried and settledin any other country.

(2) The Minister shall appoint primary dealers with therecommendation of the Central Bank to facilitate primaryand secondary market transactions in Government debtsecurities.

(3) The appointment of primary dealers shall be subjectto such terms and conditions as the Office may deemappropriate, and shall include the following:-

(a)the financial standing of the entity;

(b)the entitys experiences and the ability to performthe duties that will be imposed on it by or underthis Act;

(c)the entitys compliance with legal and regulatoryrequirements; and

(d)public interest.

(4) The primary dealers appointed under the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and Registered Stockand Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420) shall continue to beprimary dealers under this Act and be subject to theRegulations made by the Minister under this Act.

Power toappoint agentsand hire experts

22Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(5) (a) The power to regulate, supervise and monitor theprimary dealers appointed under subsection (2), and underthe Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417) and theRegistered Stock and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420)shall be vested with the Central Bank;

(b) The offences committed or that may be committedby a primary dealer under the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance(Chapter 417) and the Registered Stock and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420) shall be tried and proceeded withand be subject to the same punishment specified under therespective Ordinances and any investigation, examinationthat is or will be carried out or any suit, action or litigationinstituted or to be instituted for such offences shall be carriedout, heard or concluded as the case may be, under theprovisons of the respective Ordinances.

(6) The Central Bank shall inform the Minister on non-compliance of the primary dealers with legal and regulatoryrequirements, which may constitute a ground for cancelationor suspention of its appointment as a primary dealerirrespective of its performance of duties as a primary dealer.

(7) The Minister may make regulations for the purposeof appointment of primary dealers and the conditions to beobserved by, the privileges of and the duties to be performedby the primary dealers appointed under this Act.

(8) All rules, regulations, directions, determinations,Orders, approvals or refusals, notices, circulars, operatinginstructions, code of conduct or any other writtencommunication made or issued by the Minister or the CentralBank or any officer of the Central Bank in respect of the

23Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

Primary dealers appointed under the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417) and the Registered Stock andSecurities Ordinance (Chapter 420) and subsisting or havingeffect on the day immediately preceding the appointed dayshall continue to be in operation and be applicable to primarydealers appointed under this Act.

(9) The Minister may hire or retain the services of suchprofessionals, consultants and experts, as may be necessaryon such terms and conditions to be agreed upon, for theproper and effective performance of his functions under thisAct:

Provided that, the cost of those appointments, if any,and the cost to hire professionals consultants and expertsshall be within the provisions of the relevant AppropriationAct.

(10) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazettedesignate a securities depository system to electronicallyissue scripless securities, store holdings of and to recordownership and interests in such securities and to settletransactions in such securities in accordance with the relevantwritten law:

Provided that, until such designation is made, the Registrythat is established and maintained by the Central Bank underthe relevant laws for the securities issued by the Governmentshall continue to be in operation.

32. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazettedelegate to the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary

Power todelegate

24Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

to the Treasury, or the Director-General of the Office as thecase may be, any power conferred on the Minister by thisAct subject to such conditions, reservations and restrictionsas may be specified in such Order other than his power tomake regulations in accordance with the provisions ofsection 35.

33. The Government shall not be bound by the terms ofany loan agreement, finance lease agreement, supplierscredit agreement, derivative or any guarantee issued, orpurported to be contracted or issued for or on its behalf byany other, other than the Minister or public officer authorisedin writing in that behalf by the Minister.

34. No civil or criminal proceedings shall be institutedagainst the Secretary to the Treasury, Deputy Secretary tothe Treasury, Director-General or any employee of the Officeor any member of the Committee as the case may be, for anyact which in good faith is done or purported to be done oromitted to be done by him under this Act pursuant to and inthe course of the exercise, performance and discharge of thepowers, duties and functions on behalf of the Office, if heproves that he acted in good faith and exercised all duediligence, reasonable care and skill.

35. (1) The Minister may on the recommendation of theCommittee make regulations in respect of matters requiredby this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which regulationsare necessary to be made in order to give effect to theobjectives and the provisions of this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall be brought beforeParliament for its approval within three months of itspublication in the Gazette. Such regulations shall come intoforce upon its approval by Parliament or any subsequentdate as may be specified by Parliament. Any regulation whichis not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded from thedate of such disapproval.

Consequences ofunauthorisedtransactions andhow to excludethem

Protection fromaction

Regulations

25Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(3) Notification of the date on which any regulation is sodisapproved shall be published in the Gazette.

36. (1) The provisions of this Act shall have effectnotwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other writtenlaw and accordingly, in the event of any inconsistency orconflict between the provisions of this Act and such otherwritten law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.

(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), theprovisions of this Act shall prevail in relation to the authorityof the Minister to borrow, issue Government debt securities,loan guarantees, suppliers credit agreements and financelease agreements and the appointment of primary dealers tofacilitate primary and secondary market transactions inGovernment debt securities.

37. The applicability of section 132 of the Central Bankof Sri Lanka Act, No. 16 of 2023, shall come into operationon such date as the Minister may by Order published in theGazette appoint within a period of eighteen months fromthe appointed date:

Provided that, notwithstanding the provisions of thissection, the Office may perform its powers and functionsunder this Act.

38. Government debt Securities, loan agreements, financelease agreements, suppliers credit agreements, derivativesor any guarantees issued or entered into, before the appointeddate shall be deemed with effect from the appointed date tobe entered into under this Act.

39. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

"Annual Budget Document means the documentprepared pursuant to relevant legislations forpublic financial management which consistsof

Provisions ofthis Act toprevail overother written law

Interimarrangement tooperationlise theOffice

Arrangementsfor theapplicability ofexistingborrowinginstruments

Interpretation

26Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(a)the estimates of revenue andexpenditure in the forms as may beprescribed; and

(b)the Appropriation Bill that includes,inter alia estimates of expenditure andborrowing ceilings;

any other entity means any entity established underthe Companies Act, No. 07 of 2007 or any otherwritten law and which is approved by Parliamentto receive Government loan guarantees oron-lending funds;

borrowing means the procedures for raising funds byconcluding loan agreements, obtainingadvances from commercial banks and by issuingdebt securities and borrow shall be construedaccordingly;

Central Bank means Central Bank of Sri Lankaestablished by the Central Bank of Sri LankaAct, No. 16 of 2023;

debt includes all financial liabilities created by

(i) borrowing;

(ii) entering into suppliers credit agreementsand financial lease agreements;

(iii) issuances of debt securities for any otherpurpose than borrowing; and

(iv) assumptions of payment obligations underguaranteed loans that have been called;

27Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

debt of the Government means liabilities created bydebt and debt raised by the entities specifiedunder paragraphs (a) and (b) of section 2;

debt securities means securities issued in electronic(dematerialized) form or in paper form, to namedpersons or as bearer instruments and may benegotiable or non-negotiable which includesTreasury bills and bonds, promissory notes,certificates, notes, commercial papers or anyother similar instruments by which money israised from the public;

derivatives means instruments used for hedge againstthe financial risk embedded in the Governmentdebt portfolio and may include interest andcurrency swaps or such similar instruments;

finance lease agreements means a long-term financialarrangement, whereby the user of the asset (thelessee) pays a series of rentals or instalments tothe purchaser or the owner of that asset (thelessor) covering the full cost (including thefinancing costs and a profit margin of the lessor)of the leased asset and at the end of the lease hasthe option to acquire the asset at a fixed price;

financial year means the calendar year;

Government means the Government of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka;

guarantee means an explicit undertaking by theGovernment as the guarantor to guarantee thefulfillment of contracted obligations of anotherlegal person or entity under certain specifiedconditions;

28Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

loan guarantee means a guarantee where theGovernment as the guarantor undertakes tohonour the payment obligations of the borrowerunder the terms of a specific loan;

local authorities means all municipal councils, urbancouncils and pradeshiya sabhas;

Minister means the Minister assigned the subject ofFinance under Article 44 or 45 of theConstitution;

prescribed means prescribed by regulations;

public debt means liabilities created by debt and debtof entities referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c)and (d) of section 2;

Sovereign lenders means Governments of foreigncountries with whom Sri Lanka has diplomaticand trade relations or bilateral agreements andwhich are members of the United NationsOrganization;

special spending unit means an entity, other than aMinistry, Department, District Secretariat or aProvincial Council that has been given anExpenditure Head in the relevant AppropriationAct;

State owned enterprises means with the exception ofthe Central Bank of Sri Lanka and financialinstitutions including insurance and leasingcompanies which part or all of whose business isto lend or borrow, an entity that is

(i) a Public Corporation within the meaningof the Constitution;

29Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

(ii)entities established and operated under theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007 in whichthe State has direct controlling interest byvirtue of its shareholding; or

(iii)State-owned corporations, converted interms of the Conversion of PublicCorporations or Government OwnedBusiness Undertakings into PublicCompanies under the Conversion ofPublic Corporations or GovernmentOwned Business undertakings into PublicCompanies Act, No. 23 of 1987 or suchother Acts in terms of which any businessentity has been vested with theGovernment.

statutory funds means any fund, other than theConsolidated Fund, created or established by orunder any written law for a specific purpose towhich public finances are allocated excludingapproved termination funds which includes thrift,savings or building society or welfare fund towhich contributions are made by employees or,any gratuity fund maintained for the purpose ofpayment of gratuities to employees on thetermination of their services under the relevantwritten law.

40. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency

30Public Debt ManagementAct, No. 33 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.