PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 20.25 Postage : Rs. 6.75

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of May 09, 2003

[Certified on 9th May, 2003]

Printed on the Order of Government

INLAND REVENUE (AMENDMENT) ACT, No. 19 OF 2003

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20031

[Certified on 9th May 2003]

L. DO. 11/2003.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE INLAND REVENUE ACT, NO. 38 OF 2000

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Inland Revenue(Amendment) Act. No. 19 of 2003.

2.Section 10 of the Inland Revenue Act, No. 38 of 2000amended by Act, No. 10 of 2002 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) is hereby further amended by theinsertion, immediately after paragraph (eee) of that sectionof the following paragraph :

(eeee)the interest arising or accuring to anyperson, (other than a body corporate, or anyother person or partnership to whom or towhich such interest is arising or accuringas business income,) on any secondarymarket transaction in dealing with anySecurity or Treasury Bond issued under theRegistered Stocks and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420), or Treasury Bill issued under theLocal Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417),or Central Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422) on or after April1, 2002 :

For the purposes of this paragraph secondarymarket transaction includes a sale of a security,repurchase or reverse repurchase of a securityafter the original issue of such security ; .

3.Section 15 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 8 of 2001 is hereby further amended by the repeal ofsub-paragraph (t) of that section and the substitution thereforof the following sub-paragraph

Amendment ofsection 15 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 10 of Act,No. 38 of 2000.

Short title.

2H 0180077,150 (03/2003)

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20032

(t)the profits and income within the meaningof paragraph (a) of section 3 arising or accruingto any person or partnership on any secondarymarket transaction in dealing with any Security orTreasury Bond issued under the RegisteredStocks and Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420),or Treasury Bill, issued under the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417), orCentral Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act, (Chapter 422), on or after April1, 2002. :

For the purposes of this paragraph secondarymarket transaction includes a sale of a security,repurchase or reverse repurchase of a security, afterthe original issue of such security ; .

4.Section 21A of the principal enactment (inserted byAct, No. 10 of 2002) is hereby amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor all the words from for a period of three yearsreckoned from the commencement of the year tothe end of that subsection, of the following :

for a period of five years reckoned from theyear of assessment in which the undertakingcommences to make profits or any year ofassessment not later than two years reckonedfrom the date on which the undertakings,commences to carry on commercial operationwhich ever is earlier.;

(2)in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of that section bythe substitution for the words five hundred millionof the words two hundred and fifty million ; and

(3)by the repeal of sub-paragraph (ii) of subsection (2)of that section and the substitution therefor of thefollowing :

Amendment ofsection 21A of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20033

Amendment ofsection 21B of theprincipalenactment.

(ii)export of non-traditional products means theexport of any goods, including deemed exportof goods within the meaning of section 49,other than goods referred to in sub-paragraph(ii) of paragraph (b) of section 52, not lessthan eighty percentum of the total turnoverof such undertaking for any year ofassessment. .

5.Section 21B of the principal enactment (inserted byAct, No. 10 of 2002) is hereby amended in subsection (1) ofthat section by the substitution for all the words not lessthan five years but not more than ten years, to the end of thatsubsection of the following :

not less than six years but not more than twelveyears as may be determined by the Minister, by Orderpublished in the Gazette, if the amount of theinvestment made by such company in such undertakingis not less than one thousand million rupees. Suchperiod shall be reckoned, from the year of assessmentin which the undertaking commences to make profitsor any year of assessment not later than two yearsreckoned from the date on which the undertakingcommences to carry on of commercial operations,which ever is earlier. .

6.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 21B of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 21C, 21D, 21E, 21F and 21G ofthat enactment :

21C. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofcapital assets) of any company from anyspecified undertaking referred to in subsection(2), shall be exempt from income tax, for aperiod of five years, reckoned from the year ofassessment in which the undertaking

Insertion of newsections 21C, 21D.21E, 21F and 21Gof the principalenactment.

Exemptionfrom incometax of smallscaleinfrastructureundertakings.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20034

commences to make profits or any year ofassessment not later than two years reckonedfrom the date of commencement of commercialoperations, whichever is earlier.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)specified undertaking in relation to a companymeans an undertaking carried on by suchcompany on or after April 1, 2002, and whichis engaged in infrastructure development for thegeneration of power, tourism, recreation, warehousing and cold storage, garbage collection ordisposal, construction of houses or constructionof hospitals, and the total amount investedwithin one year from the commencementof the undertaking is not less than rupeesten million but not exceeding rupees fiftymillion.

21D. The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits and income from the sale ofcapital assets) of any company whichcommences a new undertaking which is engagedin research and development with an investmentof not less than rupees two million made withinone year from the commencement of suchundertaking, shall be exempt from income taxfor a period of five years, reckoned from theyear of assessment in which the undertakingcommences to make profits or any year ofassessment not later than two years, reckonedfrom the date on which the undertakingcommences to carry on of commercialoperations which ever is earlier.

For the purposes of this section research anddevelopment means any systematic or intensivestudy carried out in the field of science andtechnology with the object of using the results

Exemptionfrom incometax of anycompanyengaged inresearch anddevelopment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20035

thereof for the production or improvement ofmaterials, devices, products, produce or process(other than quality control of products or routinetesting materials, devices, products or produceresearch in social sciences or humanities, routinedata collection, efficiency surveys ormanagement studies and market research orsales promotion).

21E.(1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3 (otherthan any profits from the sale of capital assets)of a company which acquires a non- performingor under performing business enterprise engagedin a specific area of activity, to rehabilitate suchenterprise subject to terms approved by theMinister and subject to adequate provisionbeing made to meet the statutory liabilitiesoutstanding at the time of acquisition ofsuch enterprise, shall be exempt from incometax, for a period of three years, where theacquisition has been completed and commercialoperations have commenced on or before March31, 2004.

(2) The period of three years referred to insubsection (1), shall be reckoned from the yearof assessment in which the acquired enterprisecommences to make profits or any year ofassessment, not later than two years reckonedfrom the date on which each enterprisecommences commercial operations which everis earlier.

For the purposes of this section

acquires means acquiring ownership ofenterprise by becoming the owner,partner or a joint venturer ;

Exemptionfrom incometax of anycompanyacquiring non-performing orunderperformingbusinessenterprises.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20036

rehabilitation means the recommencementof commercial operations of theenterprise on a sustainable basis ;

specific area means the manufacture oftextiles, poultry, farming, fish rearingor any other area as may bedetermined by the Minister by Orderpublished in the Gazette ;

non-performing means the failure tocarry out commercial operations ;

under performing means the incurring ofoperational losses for a period notless than two consecutive years ofassessment.

21F. (1) The profits and income within themeaning of paragraph (a) of section 3, (otherthan any profits from the sale of capital assets)of any company which has an undertaking whichis engaged in the manufacture and export of non-traditional products and undertakes expansionof its manufacturing undertaking of suchproducts with an investment of not less thanrupees ten million but not exceeding rupees onehundred million, shall be exempt from incometax for a period of two years where the fullinvestment has been made on or before March31, 2004, in respect of such expansion.

(2) The period of two years referred to insubsection (1), shall be reckoned where theundertaking, which engages in expansion

(a)is qualified for an exemption fromincome tax on the export of non-traditional products, from the date onwhich such exemption period is dueto expire ; or

Exemptionfrom incometax of anycompanyengaged innon-traditionalproducts forexports whichundertakesexpansion.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20037

(b)other than an undertaking referred toin paragraph (a) from the date onwhich each undertaking commencesto carry on commercial operations.

For the purposes of this section export ofnon-traditional products means the export ofany goods, including deemed export of anygoods within the meaning of section 49, otherthan goods referred to in sub-paragraph (ii) ofparagraph (b) of section 52, not less than eightypercentum of the total turnover of suchundertaking for any year of assessment.

21G. (1) The profits and income attributableto the expansion of any undertaking, of anycompany, which is engaged in the manufactureor production of traditional exports or non-exportable goods and which undertakes theexpansion of any undertaking for the productionor manufacture of such traditional export or non-exportable goods with an investment of not lessthan rupees ten million, shall be exempt fromincome tax for a period of two years where thefull investment in relation to such expansion hasbeen made on or before March 31, 2004.

(2) The period of two years referred to insubsection (1) shall be reckoned from theyear of assessment in which the expansionof such undertaking commences to makeprofits or from April 1, 2006, whichever isearlier.

For the purposes of this section profits andincome attributable to the expansion of anyundertaking means the excess of profits andincome within the meaning of paragraph (a) ofsection 3, (other than any profits and incomefrom the sale of capital assets) from the

Exemptionfrom incometax of profitsand incomefromexpansion ofundertakingsengaged in themanufactureor productionof traditionalexports ornon-exportablegoods.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20038

production and manufacture of traditionalexports or non-exportable goods during any yearof assessment which is qualified for taxexemption over the annual average of the profitsof such undertaking, such average, beingcomputed taking into consideration the totalprofits for the period of three years immediatelypreceding the year of assessment in which suchtax exemption period commenced ..

7.Section 23 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section as follows :

(1)in paragraph (b) of that subsection by the repeal ofsub-paragraph (iii) thereof and the substitutiontherefor of the following sub-paragraph

(iii)any motor coach acquired by such person andused in any trade, business, profession orvocation, in transporting employees of suchtrade, business, profession or vocation to, orfrom their place of work, at the rate of onehundred percentum of its cost ofacquisition ; and

(2)in paragraph (c) of that subsection by the repeal ofsub-paragraph (ii) thereof and the substitutiontherefor of the following sub-paragraph

(ii)one-fourth of any payment made for any yearof assessment on or after April 1, 2002 ; .

8.Section 24 of the principal enactment, as last amendedby Act, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended in subsection(1) of that section, by the substitution in paragraph (j) of thatsubsection for the word and figure section 96 of the wordand figure section 95.

Amendment ofsection 24 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 23 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 20039

Amendment ofsection 29 of theprincipalenactment.

9.Section 29 of the principal enactment as amended byAct, No 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1A) of that section

(a)substitution for the word and figure section122A, wherever that word and figure appearsin that section, of the words and figuressection 122A and section 122B ;

(b)in the proviso to that subsection by thesubstitution for the words statutory incomeof such person., of the words statutoryincome of such person : ;

(c)by the insertion immediately after the provisoto that subsection of the following :

Provided further that the interest receivedor accruing to any primary dealer being acompany or otherwise from which tax hasbeen deducted under section 122A on anyprimary market transaction on any Security orTreasury Bond issued under the RegisteredStocks and Securities Ordinance (Chapter420), or Treasury Bill issued under the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417), orCentral Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422), shall notbe considered as receipts from any trade orbusiness under section 3 for the purpose ofcomputing the statutory income of suchcompany. ;

(2)by the insertion immediately after subsection (1A)of that section of the following new subsection :

(1B) The assessable income of any primarydealer, on or after April 1, 2002, shall not includeany interest income received or accruing where

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200310

(a)tax, on the total amount of such interest hasbeen deducted under section 122A or section122B, as the case may be ; and

(b)such interest income has been accrued orarisen to such primary dealer in respect of aprimary market transaction on any Security orTreasury Bonds issued under the Registeredstock and Security Ordinance (Chapter 420),or Treasury Bill issued under the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417), orCentral Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422), referred toin section 122A or any debt security issued bya company under section 122B, as the case maybe.; and ;

(3)in the proviso to subsection (2) of that section

(a)in sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph (iii) ofthat subsection by the substitution for thewords moneys worth., of the wordsmoneys worth ;;

(b)by the insertion immediately after paragraph(iii) of that proviso of the followingparagraph :

(iv) no deduction shall be allowed inrespect of any sum paid if the amount payablehas already been allowed in any year ofassessment commencing prior to April 1,2002..

10.Section 40B of the principal enactment (inserted byAct, No. 10 of 2002) is hereby amended as follows :

(1)in subsection (1) of that section by the substitutionfor the word and figure 21B of the words andfigures section 21B or section 21D ; and

Amendment ofsection 40B of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200311

Amendment ofsection 49 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 122 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 52 of theprincipalenactment.

(2)in subsection (2) of that section by the substitutionfor the word and figure section 21A, of the wordsand figures section 21A or section 21C.

11.Section 49 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) of that section, by the substitutionfor the words other than desiccated coconut of the wordsother than coconut oil and desiccated coconut.

12.Section 52 of the principal enactment is hereby amendedby the substitution for the words other than desiccated coconut,where ever such words appear in that section, of the words otherthan coconut oil or desiccated coconut.

13.Section 122 of the principal enactment as amendedby Act No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amended by the repealof subsection (2) of that section and the substitution thereforeof the following subsection :

(2)Every bank or financial institution orany company which issues any debt security, whichdeducts income tax in accordance with theprovisions of subsection (1), or subsection (1) ofsection 122A, or subsection (1) of section 122Brespectively, from any interest paid or credited ordeemed to be credited by it to any person orpartnership, as the case may be, shall issue to suchperson or partnership a statement setting out thefollowing particulars :

(a)the gross amount of the interest paid or creditedor deemed to be credited ;

(b)the rate of tax and the amount of tax deducted ;

(c)the net amount of interest actually paid..

14.Section 122A of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

Replacementof section 122Aof the principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200312

122A. (1) Every bank or financial institutionshall, subject to the provisions of this Chapter,deduct at the time the interest is paid or credited,on any sum of money deposited with it

(a)by any person or partnership in his orits own name or in the name of any otherperson or without the name of anyperson or partnership, other than in anySecurity or Treasury Bond issued underthe Registered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420), or TreasuryBill issued under the Local TreasuryBills Ordinance (Chapter 417), orCentral Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422)

(i)Where the interest paid or creditedon such deposit is not less than sixthousand rupees per month or notless than seventy two thousandrupees for a period of twelvemonths on such deposit on or afterApril 1, 2002 but prior to January1, 2003;

(ii)Where the interest paid or creditedon such deposit which is not lessthan nine thousand rupees permonth or not less than onehundred and eight thousandrupees for a period of twelvemonths, on such deposit, on orafter January 1, 2003,

income tax at the rate of ten percentum on thetotal amount of interest paid or credited on suchdeposit :

Provided however the provisions of thisparagraph shall not apply in respect of aninstitution certified by the Commissioner-

Bank orfinancialinstitution todeduct incometax on interestpaid.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200313

General as a charitable institution, on anyinterest and discount which is not in excess oftwelve thousand rupees a month or one hundredand forty four thousand rupees a year, paid orcredited to such institution on all deposits oraccounts held by such institution :

Provided further, that where a person or apartnership requests, to a bank or financialinstitution, in writing to deduct income tax atthe rate of ten percentum from any interest paidor credited to such person or partnership on asum of money deposited by such person orpartnership with such bank or financialinstitution, then such bank or financialinstitution shall comply with such request, notwithstanding that the amount of interest paidor credited does not exceed the amountsspecified in the preceeding provisions and suchdeduction of tax shall be a deduction undersection 122A ;

(b)by any person or partnership in his or itsown name or without the name of anyperson or partnership in any Security orTreasury Bond issued under theRegistered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420), or TreasuryBill issued under the Local Treasury BillsOrdinance (Chapter 417), or CentralBank Security issued under the MonetaryLaw Act (Chapter 422), and any discountis allowed and any interest is paid or ispayable over the tenor of the period ofsuch Security Bond or Bill,

income tax at the rate of ten percentum on thetotal amount of interest calculated at the yield tomaturity over the tenor of such Security, Bond

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200314

or Bill, as the case may be, at the time of theissue of such Security, Bond or Bill other thanany Security, bond Bill issued prior to April 1,2002.

For the purpose of this paragraph the yield, tomaturity of any security or treasury bond issuedunder the Registered stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420), or Treasury Bill issuedunder the Local Treasury Bonds Ordinance(Chapter 417), or Central Bank Security issuedunder the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422), atthe time of issue, shall mean the interest at thetime of issue considering the issue price whichmay be at a premium or discount on the par valueof such Security, Bond or Bill, the interestcoupons, the frequency and timing of interestcoupons, the maturity value and the term ofmaturity.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph(a) of subsection (1), in case of any savingscertificate, certificate of deposit, or similarinstruments or Government Rupee Loans or anydeposit not in the name of any individual or jointlywith any other individual to any charitableinstitution as certified by the Commissioner-General, income tax shall be deducted on the totalamount of the discount allowed and interest paidirrespective of such amount of discount or interest.

(3) For the purposes of a deduction of incometax under this section

(a)a sum of money deposited means anyinterest bearing deposit, any form ofsavings certificate or certificate ofdeposit or any Security or TreasuryBond issued under the Registered Stocksand Securities Ordinance (Chapter 420),

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200315

Treasury Bill issued under the LocalTreasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417),or the Central Bank Security issuedunder the Monetary Law Act (Chapter422);

(b)interest in relation to a deposit of asum of money includes interest,discount, any guaranteed income or feeassured, or any other payment accruingto the benefit of the person orpartnership in whose name or on whosebehalf the sum of money is depositedor to any other person on his or its behalfbut does not include any interestexempt under section 10 or any interestcredited or paid to any Ministry of aMinister of the Cabinet, orDepartment of the Government of SriLanka, or any Local GovernmentInstitution, or any Institution under aProvincial Council, or any foreignGovernment or any person exempt onsuch interest income under paragraph(a) of section 8 of this Act ;

(c)in the case of a discount allowed, interestwhich is equal to the amount of discountshall be deemed to have been paid at thetime of such discount is allowed and incase of a bill or bond or security withinterest payments over the tenor of suchBond or Bill, or security the interest shallbe the yield to maturity which amountsshall be deemed to have been paid at thetime of the issue of such, Bond or Billor security.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200316

For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declaredthat deduct at the time the interest is paid orcredited in subsection (1) shall include any amountof interest credited to any account of the depositoror any other person..

15.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 122A of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 122B of that enactment :

122B. (1) Any company which issuescorporate debt security shall, subject to theprovisions of this Chapter, deduct at the time ofpayment the interest payable by such companywhere such payment takes place on or afterNovember 1, 2002 on any sum of moneysubscribed by any person or partnership towardssuch debt security, whether such subscriptionhas been made before or on or after November1, 2002, income tax at the rate of ten percentumon the total amount of interest accrued and paidor credited on such debt security :

Provided however any corporate debtsecurity issued at a discount exceeding fiftypercentum of the par value of such security shallnot be subject to the deduction of tax under thissection. Any interest or other income arising outof or in relation to such security shall bechargeable with tax, at the rate of ten percentum,including any secondary market transaction,involving such security notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Act.

(2) Where any discount is allowed or anyother guaranteed income is paid on such debtsecurity on or after November 1, 2002 suchdiscount or income shall be deemed to beinterest paid and be liable to the deduction ofincome tax accordingly.

A companywhich issuescorporate debtsecurity todeduct incometax on interest.

Insertion of newsection 122B inthe principalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200317

For the purposes of this section

(a)corporate debt security means anydebt security issued by anycompany

(i) which is a limited liabilitycompany listed on the StockExchange ; or

(ii)where the security is listed on theStock Exchange; or

(iii) where the paying agent for suchcompany is a

(A)licensed commercial bankor a financial servicessubsidiary thereof ; or

(B)licensed specialized bankor a financial servicessubsidiary thereof ; or

(C)a non-bank financialinstitution,

and such security shall be any interest bearingor discounted debt instrument which includesbonds, notes, mortgages and any other formof instrument or paper that obligates thecompany which issues such security to paythe holder of a specified sum of money ondemand or during the tenor or maturity.

(b)debt security shall not include anyloans, advances, over-draft or othersimilar facility or financial instrumentissued by a bank or financial institutionin the course of carrying on a business.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200318

For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that deductat the time of payment from interest payable, in subsection(1) shall include any amount of interest credited to any accountof the subscriber or any other person..

16.Section 123 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the substitution for all the words a paymentreferred to in section 122, then, of the words apayment of interest referred to in section 122, section122A or section 122B, then ;

(2)in paragraph (a) of that section by the substitutionfor the word and figure section 122, of the wordsand figures section 122, section 122A or section122B;

(3)in paragraph (b) of that section

(a)by the substitution for the word and figuresection 123, of the words and figuressection 122, section 122A or section 122B;

(b)by the substitution for the words amount setout in such statement, of the words amountset out in such statement :; and

(4)by the addition immediately after paragraph (b) ofthat section of the following :

Provided however, where the total income onwhich tax has been deducted under section 122A orsection 122B, accrues over more than one year ofassessment and has not been included in full incomputing the assessable income of such person forany year of assessment, then such deduction shallbe restricted to the propotionate amount of tax sodeducted which is attributable to the incomeincluded in the assessable income of such person inthat year or any subsequent year of assessment..

Amendment ofsection 123 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200319

17.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 123 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as sections 123A and 123B of thatenactment :

123A. Where any person is engaged in anysecondary market transaction, involving anysecurity or treasury bond issued under theRegistered stock and Securities Ordinance(Chapter 420), or Treasury Bill issued under theLocal Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter 417),or Central Bank Security issued under theMonetary Law Act (Chapter 422) ,referred toin section 122A on which the income tax hasbeen deducted during any year of assessment atthe rate of ten percentum at the time of issue ofsuch Security, Bond or Bill or where suchSecurity, Bond or Bill has been issued prior toApril 1, 2002 such person is entitled to a notionaltax credit at ten percentum of the grossed upamount of interest income from such secondarymarket transaction to an amount of one ninth ofthe same, if such interest income forms part ofthe assessable income of such person for thatyear of assessment.

For the purposes of this section interestincome from secondary market transactionmeans interest income accrued or received on aoutright or reverse purchase transaction on suchSecurity, Bond or Bill from a date on or afterthe date of primary issue of such Security, Bondor Bill, less interest expenses on repurchasetransaction with Securities, Treasury Bonds orTreasury Bills from which such interest incomewas earned which has been certified by anapproved accountant referred to in section 99of this Act.

Insertion of newsections 123A and123B of theprincipalenactment.

A notionaltax credit onsecondarymarkettransactions.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200320

123B. Where any person has proved tothe satisfaction of the Commissioner-Generalthat such person has already paid income taxon any interest liable to income tax at tenpercentum under section 122A or 122B withintwelve months from the date of commencementof this Act, such person shall be entitled to arefund of such income tax paid by him on suchinterest income other than income tax deductedunder section 122A or 122B..

18.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 124 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 124A of that enactment :

124A. (1) Any person or partnership fromwhose interest income the income tax isdeductible by a bank or financial institution, ora company which issues any corporate debtsecurity in accordance with the provisions ofsection 122A or 122B, as the case may be, andsuch interest income will form part of theassessble income of such person or divisibleprofit or income of the partnership, as the casemay be, for any year of assessment, may,if the amount of income tax payable by him orthe relevant partners for such year ofassessment is less than the income taxdeductible during that year of assessment undersection 122A or 122B, make an application tothe Commissioner-General in such form andcontaining such particulars as may be specifiedby the Commissioner-General requesting thata direction be issued to that bank or financialinstitution or any company which issuescorporate debt security, to make the necessaryadjustments in the deduction of income tax inthat year of assessment.

Refund ofincome taxpaid oninterest liableto withholdingtax.

Insertion of newsection 124A inthe principalenactment.

Issue ofdirectionswheredeductions aremade undersection 122Aor 122B.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200321

(2) The provisions of subsection (2),subsection (3), and subsection (4) of section 124shall mutatis mutandis apply to and inrelation to any direction issued under subsection(1).

(3) The Commissioner-General shall notissue a direction as provided for in subsection(1) of this section unless, such excess deductionof the income tax arises as a result of lossesincurred by such person or partnership whichare deductible under section 29 and such amountof losses at the commencement of the relevantyear of assessment exceeds the estimated totalstatutory income for that year on the basis ofthe preceding year excluding the relevantestimated interest income which is subject tothe deduction of income tax under section 122Aor 122B or such interest income which is subjectto the income tax deduction is exempt fromincome tax.

19.The following new section is hereby insertedimmdiately after section 125 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 125A of that enactment :

125A. Where the Commissioner General isof the view, that any bank or financial institutionwhich issues any debt security, or a companywhich issues corporate debt security notdeducting tax in accordance with the provisionsof section 5 122A or 122B, as the case may be,he shall after affording such bank, financialinstitution or any such company which issuescorporate debt security an opportuity to showcause and where he is satisfied that there hasbeen a contravention of the provisions ofsections 122A or 122B, as the case may be,

Insertion ofnew section125A in theprincipalenactment.Penalty fortax avoidance.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200322

impose on such bank or financial institution orthe company which issues such debt security apenalty of a sum equivalent to five hundredpercentum of the tax avoided by thecontravention of the provisions of any suchsections. .

20.Section 129 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1)by the renumbering of that section as subsection(1) ; and

(2)by the addition immediately after the renumberedsubsection (1) of that section of the followingsubsection :

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained insubsection (1), where any penalty is payable undersubsection(1), is outstanding on November 6,2002

(a)such penalty shall be waived in full where thetax in default has been fully paid on or beforeNovember 6, 2002 ;

(b)where a part of the tax in default has been paidon or before November 6, 2002, the penaltyreferable to the amount of the tax in default sopaid, shall be waived..

21.The following new sections are hereby insertedimmediately after section 130 of the principal enactmentand shall have effect as section 130A and 130B of thatenactment :

130A. Where any tax has been deducted fromany person or partnership in accordance withthe provisions of sections 122A or 122B, suchperson or partnership, as the case may be, shallbe a person or partnership chargeable withincome tax.

Person orPartnershipchargeablewith incometax.

Amendment ofsection 129 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200323

Insertion of newsections 130A and130B in theprincipalenactment.

130B. For the purposes of this Chapter, anyCo-operative society registered under the Co-operative Societies Law, No. 5 of 1972, shallbe deemed to be a company..

22.Section 186 of the principal enactment as lastamended by Act, No. 10 of 2002 is hereby further amendedas follows :

(1)in the definition of the expression of authorizedrepresentative

(a)in sub item (iii) in item 1 (a) of that definitionby the substitution for the words Attorney-at-Law ; or the words Attorney-at-Law ;;

(b)in sub item (iv) in item 1 (a) of the definitionby the substitution for the words employedby that person, of the words employed bythat person ; or;

(c)by the insertion immediately after sub item (iv)in item 1 (a) of the following :

(v)a member of the Sri Lanka Institute ofTaxation established under the Sri LankaInstitute of Taxation Act, No. 21 of2000 ; ;

(2)by the insertion immediately after the definition ofthe expression prescribed of the following :

primary dealer means any financier or bank,appointed, by the Monetary Board of Sri Lanka,under the Local Treasury Bills Ordinance (Chapter417) or the Registered Stocks and SecuritiesOrdinance (Chapter 420), and functioning as aprimary dealer in Treasury Bills, Treasury BondsRegistered Stock or other Security ; .

Registered co-operativesocietiesdeemed to becompanies.

Amendment ofsection 186 of theprincipalenactment.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200324

23.The Third Schedule to the principal enactment ishereby amended in item (12) of that Schedule by thesubstitution for the word, figure and letter section (1) (r)of the word, figures and letter section 23(1) (q).

24.(1) The amendments made to sections 10, 15, 21A,21B, 23, 29, 40B, 122, 122A 123 and 186 of the principalenactment by sections 2, 3, 4, 5, 9(1) (b), (c), 9(2), 9(3), 10,13, 14, 16 and 22 of this Act, shall for all purposes bedeemed ; to have come into force on April 1, 2002.

(2) The inserted new sections 21D, 21E and 21G insertedin the principal enactment by section 6 of this Act, shall forall purposes be deemed to have come into force on April 1,2003.

(3). The amendments made to sections 23, 24 and the ThirdSchedule to the principal enactment by sections 7(2), 8 andsection 23 of this Act, shall for all purposes be deemed tohave come into force on April 1, 2000.

4. (a)The amendment made to section 29 of theprincipal enactment by section 9(1) (a) of thisAct, and

(b)The new section 122B inserted in the principalenactment by section 15 of this Act,

shall for all purposes be deemed to have come into force onNovember 1, 2002.

5. The amendment made to section 49 and 50 of theprincipal enactment by sections 11 and 12 of this Act, shallfor all purposes be deemed to have come into force onJanuary 1, 2003.

6. The amendment made to section 129 of the principalenactment by section 20 of this Act, shall for all purposes bedeemed to have come into force on November 6, 2002.

Amendment of theThird Schedule tothe principalenactment.

Retrospectiveeffect.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200325

(7) (a)seetion 21F, inscrted in the principal enactmentby section 6, of this Act shall be deemed for allpurposes to have come into force on October1, 2002;

(b) sections 21C, 123A, 123B, 124A, 125A, 130Aand 130B inserted in the principal enactmentby sections 6, 17, 18, 19 and 21 respectively ofthis Act

shall for all purposes be deemed to have come into forceon April 1, 2002.

25.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

Inland Revenue (Amendment) Act, No. 19 of 200326

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.