2 ow. ie

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

MAINTENANCE CLAIMS
(RECIPROCAL ENFORCEMENT)
ACT, No. 54 OF 1998

[Certified on 27 th November , 1998 ]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of November 27, 1998

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 9.00 : Postage : Rs. 3.50


v

Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

{Certified on 27th November, 1998]
L.D.—O. 34/83.

AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO THE UNITED NATIONS CONVENTION ON
THE RECOVERY ABROAD OF MAINTENANCE, SIGNED AT New YORK
ON 20TH JUNE, 1956; TO MAKE PROVISION FOR FACILITATING THE
RECOVERY OF MAINTENANCE BY OR FROM PERSONS IN SRI LANKA
FROM OR BY PERSONS IN ANY OTHER COUNTRY; TO EXTEND THE
JURISDICTION OF MAGISTRATE’S COURTS TO HEAR APPLICATIONS
AGAINST PERSONS OUTSIDE SRI LANKA AND FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH AND INCIDENTAL THERETO

WHEREAS Sri Lanka is a contracting party to the United
Nations Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance,
signed at New York on June 20th, 1956:

AND WHEREAS, Sri Lanka ratified the aforesaid Convention
of 7th August, 1958.

AND WHEREAS it is necessary and expedient to make
legislative provision for the enforcement in Sri Lanka of the
said Convention :

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Maintenance Claims
(Reciprocal Enforcement) Act, No. 54 of 1998, and shall be
deemed for all purposes to have come into operation on
August 7, 1958 being the date on which Sri Lanka ratified
the United Nations Convention on the Recovery Abroad of
Maintenance, signed at New York on 20th June, 1956.

2. (1) The Minister may by Order published in the
Gazette declare, that the provisions of this Act shall apply—

(a) in respect of every country as specified in such Order
where—

(i) such country is a country to which the
Maintenance Convention applies ; or

2—D 04977 1—8,550 (98/08)

Preamble.

Short Title and

date of operation.

Application of the
Act.


Application by a

. person in Sri
Lanka for
recovery of —
maintenance or
for enforcement or
variation of a
maintenance
orders made in a
specified country.

2 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(ii) an agreement has been entered into between Sai
Lanka and such country extending the application
of the provisions of this Act in respect of that
country ; or

(6) to the Hongkong Special Administrative Region of
the People’s Republic of China, where an agreement
has been entered into between Sri Lanka and such
Special Administrative Region extending the
application of the provisions of this Act, in respect of
that Region.

(2) A country or the Special Administrative Region
declared by Order made under subsection (1), shall hereinafter
be referred to as a “specified country”.

3. (1) Where a person in Sri Lanka (hereinafter in this
section referred to as the “applicant”) claims to be entitled to
recover in a specified country maintenance from another
person, (hereinafter referred to as the “respondent’) and the
respondent is for the time being subject to the jurisdiction of
that specified country, the applicant may apply to the Secretary
to the Ministry of the Minister (hereinafter referred to as the
“Secretary”) in accordance with the provisions of this section,
to have the claim for the recovery of maintenance from the
respondent, transmitted to that specified country.

(2) Where an applicant seeks to—
(a) enforce an order ; or

(6) vary an order,

made in a specified country, for the payment by a respondent
of maintenance to the applicant and the respondent is for the
time being residing in that country, the applicant may apply
to the Secretary in accordance with the provisions of this
section, to have the claim for enforcement or variation as the
case may be, of that order, be transmitted to that specified
country.


fod

Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(3) On receipt of an application under subsection (1) or
subsection (2), as the case may be, the Secretary shall transmit
the application together with any accompanying documents,
to the appropriate authority in such specified country.

4. (1) Where the Secretary receives from the appropriate
authority in a specified country, an application by a person in
that country for the recovery of maintenance from another
person who is for the time being. residing in Sri Lanka, he
shall send the application together with any accompanying
documents to the Registrar of the Magistrates Court within
the jurisdiction of which that other person is residing.

(2) If a summons to appear before a Magistrate’s Court
having jurisdiction to hear the application cannot be duly
served on the other person, the Registrar of the Court shall,
subject to subsection (3), return the application and the
accompanying documents to the Secretary with a statement
that such other person is not residing within the jurisdiction
of that court and such persons whereabouts are not known.
The Secretary shall thereupon return the application and the
accompanying documents to the appropriate authority in the
specified Country.

(3) If the Registrar of a Magistrate’s Court to whom the
application is sent in pursuance of subsection (1) of this
section, is satisfied that the other person is residing within
the jurisdiction of another Magistrate’s Court in Sri Lanka,
he shall send the application and all the accompanying
documents to the Secretary informing the Secretary of such
fact and the Secretary shall transmit such application and the
accompanying documents to the Registrar of that other
Magistrates Court. ,

(4) The Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court to whom the
application is sent under subsection (3), shall proceed as if it
had been sent to him under subsection (1).

Application by
persons in
specified country
for recovery of
maintenance in Sri
Lanka.


Enforcement of an
order made in a
specified country.

4 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(5) An application made under this section shall—

(a) be treated as an application for an order under section
2 of the Maintenance Ordinance and sections 3, 4
and 5 of that Ordinance shall apply in relation to
such application and any order made in pursuance
thereof ; and

—

(b) be proceeded with as if the applicant was Present in

person before the Court.

(6) When a Magistrate’s Court makes an order on that
application, the Registrar shall register the order in a register
to be maintained for that purpose.

(7) Payment of any sum due under a registered order shall,
while the order is registered in a Magistrate’s Court, be made
in such manner as may be determined by the Magistrate and
sections 8a and 8B of the Maintenance Ordinance shall not
apply in relation to such registered order.

5. (1) Where the Secretary receives from the appropriate
authority in a specified country, an application made by a
person in that country to recover maintenance from a person
who is for the time being residing in Sri Lanka on any order
made by a court in that country, he shall send such application
with a certified copy of the order sought to be enforced
together with any other accompanying documents, to the
Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court within the jurisdiction of
which the person who is liable to make payment under such
order, is residing.

(2) On réceipt of an application under subsection (1), it
shall be the duty of the Registrar to register such order in a
register to be maintained for that purpose, and thereafter have
a copy of such registered order to be served on-the person
who is liable to make payment under such order.


Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement) 5
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(3) Where the Registrar of the Magistrate’s Court to whom
an application is sent under subsection (1) of this section, is
satisfied that the person liable to make payment under the
order sought to be enforced—

(a) is residing within the jurisdiction of any other
Magistrate’s Court in Sri Lanka, he shall return the
application, the copy of the certified order and all
other accompanying documents to the Secretary
informing the Secretary of such fact, and the
Secretary shall transmit the application, the copy of

the certified order and all other accompanying -

documents to the Registrar of that other Magistrate’s
Court; or

(b

—

is not residing within the jurisdiction of such
Magistrate’s Court and the whereabouts of such
person is not known, he shall return the application,
+ . copy of the certified order and all other
accompanying documents to the Secretary, who shall
transmit them back to the specified country from
which the application was sent.

(4) Payment of any sum due under an order registered
under subsection (2), shall, while the order is registered in a
Magistrate’s Court, be made in such manner as may be
determined by the Magistrate, and sections 8a and 88 of the
Maintenance Ordinance shall not apply in relation to such
registered order.

6. Where the application received by a Magistrate’s Court
under subsection (1) of section 4 of this Act is in respect of an
illegitimate child it shall be sufficient for the purpose of section
6 of the Maintenance Ordinance to prove that the person from
whom recovery of maintenance is being sought has, within
the twelve months next after the birth of the child to whom
the application relates, paid money for its maintenance in
_ pursuance of a requirement of the law applied by a court
“outside Sri Lanka.

Application in
respect of an

illegitimate child. _


Transfer of
Orders.

Enforcement of
Orders.

6 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

TRANSFER, ENFORCEMENT, VARIATION AND REVOCATION OF
REGISTERED ORDERS

7. (1) Where the Registrar of the registering court is of
opinion that the payer under a registered order has ceased to
reside within the jurisdiction of that Court, then unless he is
of opinion that the payer has ceased to reside in Sri Lanka, he

shall subject to subsection (2), send a certified copy of the
order and the related documents to the Secretary.

(2) Where the Registrar of the registering court is of
opinion that the payer is residing within the jurisdiction of
another Magistrate’s Court, in Sri Lanka, he shall transfer the
order to the Secretary, informing the Secretary of such fact
and the Secretary shall transfer the documents to the Registrar
of the relevant court. Subject to subsection (3), the Registrar
of that court shall register the order in a register to be
maintained for that purpose and shall take necessary steps to
have a copy of such order to be served on the payer.

(3) Before registering an order in pursuance of subsection
(2), the Registrar of the court shall take such steps as he thinks
fit for the purpose of ascertaining whether the payer under

“the order is residing within the jurisdiction of the court, and
if after taking these steps he is satisfied that the payer is not
so residing, he shall return the certified copy of the order and
the related documents to the Secretary.

(4) Where a certified copy of an order is received by the
Secretary under this section together with a notice signed by
the Registrar that the payer has ceased to reside in Sri Lanka,
the Secretary shall return the copy of the order and the related
documents to the appropriate authority in the specified
country.

8. (1) A registered order which is registered in a court
other than the court by which the Order was made may be
enforced as if it had been made by the registering court and
as if that court has jurisdiction to make it, and proceedings
for or with respect to the enforcement of any such order may
_be taken in accordance with this subsection but not otherwise.


Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement) 7
Aét, No. 54 of 1998

* (2) A Magistrate’s Court in which an order is registered
under. this Act, and the officers thereof, shall take all such
steps as may be necessary for enforcing the order.

9. (1) Where the Secretary receives from the appropriate
authority in a specified country an application by a person in
that country for the variation of a registered order, he shall
send the application together with any documents
accompanying it to the Registrar of the registering court.

(2) The Registrar of the registering court, shall treat the
application transmitted to him under subsection (1) as if it
were an application for the variation of the order to which the
application relates, and the court hearing the application shall
proceed as if the applicants were before the court.

10. (1) Where a registered order is registered in a court
other than the court by which the order was made, the
registering court shall have the power to vary or revoke the
order as if it had been made by the registering court and as if
that court had jurisdiction to make it.

(2) Where the registering court revokes a registered order
it shall cancel the registration.

(3) Where the respondent to an application for the variation
or revocation of a registered order, does not appear at the
time and place appointed for the hearing of the application,
but the court is satisfied—

(a) that the respondent is residing outside Sri Lanka;
and

(6) that adequate notice of the making of the application
‘and of the time and place aforesaid has been given
to the respondent,

the court may proceed to hear and determine the application
at the time and place appointed for the hearing or for any
adjournment of hearing, in like manner as if the respondent
had appeared at that time and place. ’

Variation of a
registered order.

power to vary
an order not
made by the
registering
court.


Admissibility of
evidence given in
specified country.

8 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(4) Where a Magistrates Court makes or refuses to make
an order varying or revoking a registered order made by
another Magistrate Court, an aggrieved person shall have the
right of appeal against the order or refusal as he would have
if the registered order had been made by the first mentioned
court,

11. (1) A statement contained in —

(a) adocument, duly authenticated, which purports to
set out or summarise evidence given in proceedings
in a court in a specified country ; or

(6) a document, duly authenticated, which purports to
set out or summarise evidence taken in such a country
for the purpose of proceedings in any court in
Sri Lanka, whether in response to a request made on
behalf of such a court or otherwise; or

(c

—

a document, duly authenticated, which purports to
have been received in evidence in proceedings in a
court in such a country, or to be a copy of adocument
sO received,

shall in any proceedings in a Magistrate’s Court arising in
pursuance of an application sent to that court under this Act,
be admissible as evidence of any fact stated therein, to the
same extent as oral evidence of that fact is admissible in those
proceedings. ~

(2) A document purporting to set out or summarise
evidence given as mentioned in subsection (1) (a) or taken as
mentioned in subsection (1) (5), shall be deemed to be duly
authenticated, for the purposes of that subsection, if the
document purports to be certified by the Judge, Magistrate or -
other person before whom the evidence was given or, as the
case may be, by whom it was taken, to be the original
document setting out or recording, or as the case may. be,
summarising that evidence or a true copy of that document.


Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement) 9
Act, No. 54 of 1998

(3) A document purporting to have been received in
evidence as mentioned in subsection (1) (c), or to be a copy
of a document so received, shall be deemed to be duly
authenticated for the purposes of that subsection, if the
document purports to be certified by a Judge, Magistrate or

‘officer of the court in question receiving such document to
have been, or to be a true copy of a document which has been
so received.

(4) It shall not be necessary in any such proceedings to
prove the signature or official position of the person purporting
to have given such certificate.

(5) Nothing in this section shall affect the admission in
evidence of any document which is admissible in evidence
apart from this section.

12. (1) Acourt in Sri Lanka may for the purpose of any
proceedings in that court under this Act in pursuance of an
application received by the Secretary from a specified country,
request the Secretary to make to the appropriate authority or
court in the specified country, a request for the taking in that
‘country of the evidence of a person residing therein relating
to matters connected with the application.

(2) A request made by a court under this section shall —
(a) give details of the application in question;

(b) state the name and address of the person whose
evidence is to be taken; and

(c) specify the matters relating to which the evidence
of such person is required.

13. (1) Where a request is made to the Secretary by or
on behalf of a court in a specified country to obtain the
evidence of a person residing in Sri Lanka, relating to matters
connected with an application to which section 3 of this Act
applies, the Secretary shall request such court within whose

Obtaining of
evidence for
purpose of
proceedings in Sri
Lanka.

Taking of
evidence at
request of Court
in specified
country.


10 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

jurisdiction such person resides, to take the evidence of that
person relating to such matters connected with that application
as may be specified in the request.

(2) The Court by which a request under subsection (1) is
received from the Secretary shall have the power to take the
evidence and after giving notice to such persons of the time
and place at which the evidence is to be taken, and in such
manner as it thinks fit, shall take the evidence of the person

"named in the request relating to the matters specified therein
and the evidence so taken shall be sent by the court to the
court in the specified country by or on behalf of which the
request referred to in subsection (1) was made.

(3) If the summons to appear before court, within whose
jurisdiction the person whose evidence is to be obtained
resides, cannot be duly served on such person, the Registrar
of the Court shall, return the application making such request
to the Secretary, with a statement that such person is not
residing within the jurisdiction of that court and the
whereabouts of the-person are not known. The Secretary shall
thereupon return the documents connected with the request
made, to the court in the specified country by or on behalf of
which such request was made under subsection (1).

(4) Where any person, not being the person by whom the
application mentioned in subsection (1) of section 3 was made,
is required by virtue of this section to give evidence before a
court in Sri Lanka, the court may order that there shall be
paid out of moneys provided by the State, such sums as appear
to the court to be reasonably sufficient to compensate that
person for the expense, trouble or ioss of time properly
incurred in, or incidental to, this attendance.

(5) The provisions of Chapters V and VI of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 which provide for
compelling the attendance of witnesses and other related
matters, shall apply in relation to a Magistrates Court to which
a request under subsection (1) is made, as if the application
to which the request relates were a complaint to be heard by
that Court.


Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement) 11
Act, No. 54 of 1998

14. Where the Secretary has received, on any date after
August, 7, 1958 but prior to the date on which this Act is
certified, from the appropriate authority in a country to which
the Maintenance Convention applies, an application by a
person in that country for the recovery of maintenance from
another person who is for the time being residing in Sri Lanka,
such country shall be deemed to be a specified country in
respect of which an Order has been made under section 2 of
this Act, with effect from the day immediately preceding the
date on which such application was received by the Secretary,
and accordingly, the Secretary shall send such application to
the Registrar of the Magistrate’s court within the jurisdiction
of which the person from whom maintenance is sought to be
recovered resides, to be dealt with under this Act.

15. Every reference in this Act to a “Magistrate’s Court”
in the case of an application for maintenance relating to a
Muslim who is governed by the provisions of the Muslim
Marriage and Divorce Act (Chapter 115), shall be read and
construed as a reference to the relevant Quazi appointed under
that Act.

16. In the event of inconsistency between the Sinhala
- and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

17. In this Act —

“certified copy” in relation to an order of a court means a
copy of the order certified by a proper officer of the
court to be a true copy;

“Maintenance Convention” means the United Nations
Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance
signed at New York on 20th June, 1956;

“payer” in relation to a registered order means the person
liable to make payments under the order;

“registering court” in relation to a registered order, means
the court in which that order is for the time being
registered under this Act;

Transitional
provision.

Savings in respect
of applications
relating to
Muslims.

Sinhala text to *
prevail in case of
inconsistancy

Interpretation.


12 Maintenance Claims (Reciprocal Enforcement)
Act, No. 54 of 1998

“registered order” means an order which is for the time
being registered in a court in Sri Lanka under this
Act; and

“related documents” means —

(a) the application in pursuance of which the order
was made;

(6) a statement giving such information as he
giving
possesses as to the whereabouts of the payer;
and

(c) any relevant documents in his possession
relating to the case.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, No. 32, Transworks House,
Lotus Roap, CoLomao 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.

a ae 7
