PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRYDEVELOPMENT ACT, No. 33 OF 2014

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 16th October, 2014]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 47.00Postage : Rs. 70.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of October 17, 2014

1Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

2PL 0084383,000 (08/2014)

[Certified on 16th October, 2014]

L.D.O. 59/2005.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTIONINDUSTRY IN SRI LANKA; TO REGULATE, REGISTER, FORMALIZE

AND STANDARDIZE THE ACTIVITIES OF THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY;

TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL ADVISORY

COUNCIL ON CONSTRUCTION; THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE

CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY; AND THE

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT FUND

AND THE FUND OF THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT

AUTHORITY; TO PROVIDE MEASURES FOR THE IMPROVEMENT AND

WELLBEING OF THE INDUSTRY RELATED PROFESSIONALS,

MANUFACTURERS, SUPPLIERS, CONTRACTORS AND CRAFTSMEN;

AND FOR THE SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES RELATED TO CONSTRUCTION

ACTIVITIES; TO ENSURE PUBLIC SAFETY IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY

OF SRI LANKA; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR

INCIDENTAL THERETO.

Be it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Construction IndustryDevelopment Act, No. 33 of 2014 and shall come intooperation on such date (hereinafter referred to as theappointed date) as the Minister may appoint by Orderpublished in the Gazette.

(2) This Act shall apply to all activities relating to theconstruction industry within the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka, except otherwise provided herein.

PART I

NATIONAL POLICY ON CONSTRUCTION AND ITS IMPLEMENTATION

2.(1) The National Advisory Council on Constructionestablished under Part II of this Act, shall formulate a NationalPolicy on Construction and such policy shall comprise

Short title, dateof operation andapplication.

National policyon Construction.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 20142

matters relating to the construction industry and its goals.The National Advisory Council on Construction shall oncompletion of the National Policy forward it to the Cabinetof Ministers for approval. Such National Policy may, fromtime to time, be revised in keeping with the developmentsof the construction industry.

(2) In formulating the National Policy in terms ofsubsection (1), emphasis shall be given to the involvementof professionals within the construction industry, includingresource personnel in the field of traditional knowledge.

3.The Minister may, from time to time, for the purposeof implementing the National Policy on Constructionprepared in terms of section 2, give such general or specialdirections as he may consider necessary to the ConstructionIndustry Development Authority to provide for thepromotion and implementation of the National Policy.

PART II

NATIONAL ADVISORY COUNCIL ON CONSTRUCTION

4.There shall be established a council which shall becalled the National Advisory Council on Construction(hereinafter referred to as the Council) and shall consist ofthe members as specified in section 5.

5.(1) The Council shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members, namely

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Construction whoshall be the Chairman of the Council and inhis absence, an officer not below the rank ofan Additional Secretary of that Ministry,nominated by the Secretary;

Implementation ofNational Policy.

Establishment ofthe NationalAdvisoryCouncil onConstruction.

Constitution ofthe Council.

3Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of UrbanDevelopment or an officer not below the rankof a Senior Assistant Secretary in charge ofdevelopment work of that Ministrynominated by the Secretary;

(iii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Highways or anofficer not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary in charge of development work ofthat Ministry nominated by the Secretary;

(iv)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Water Supply andDrainage or an officer not below the rank of aSenior Assistant Secretary in charge ofdevelopment work, of that Ministrynominated by the Secretary;

(v)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Irrigation or anofficer not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary in charge of development work, ofthat Ministry nominated by the Secretary;

(vi)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Housing or anofficer not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary in charge of development work, ofthat Ministry nominated by the Secretary;

(vii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Vocational andTechnical Training or an officer not belowthe rank of a Senior Assistant Secretary incharge of development work, of that Ministrynominated by the Secretary; and

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 20144

(b)the following fifteen members appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to as appointedmembers) as follows:

(i)the Chairman of the Construction IndustryDevelopment Authority established undersection 8 of this Act;

(ii)the President of the Institution of Engineers,Sri Lanka established under the Institutionof Engineers, Sri Lanka Act, No. 17 of 1968or his representative;

(iii)the President of the Sri Lanka Institute ofArchitects established under the Sri LankaInstitute of Architects Law, No. 1 of 1976 orhis representative;

(iv)the President of the Institute of QuantitySurveyors, Sri Lanka established under theInstitute of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of 2007 or hisrepresentative;

(v)the President of the Institute of TownPlanners, Sri Lanka established under theInstitute of Town Planners, Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 23 of 1986 or hisrepresentative;

(vi)the President of the Association ofConsulting Engineers, Sri Lanka establishedunder the Association of ConsultingEngineers, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No.42 of 2003 or his representative;

(vii)the President of the Institution of IncorporatedEngineers, Sri Lanka established under theInstitution of Incorporated Engineers,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 64 of 1992or his representative;

5Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(viii)two representatives from the NationalConstruction Association of Sri Lankarepresenting the Major and MinorContractors, respectively and who arenominated by the National ConstructionAssociation of Sri Lanka;

(ix)one representative from the Chamber ofConstruction Industry, Sri Lanka nominatedby the Chamber of Construction Industry,Sri Lanka;

(x)one member nominated by the Institution ofEngineers, Sri Lanka established by theInstitution of Engineers, Sri Lanka Act, No.17 of 1968; and

(xi)four members appointed by the Minister fromamong persons who have achieved eminencein the fields of construction, environmentalscience, labour relations and public health oroccupational health.

(2) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as an appointed member of the Council

(a)if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament or anyProvincial Council or any local authority; or

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka; or

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country found or declared to suffer fromunsoundness of mind; or

(d)if he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lankaor any other country; or

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 20146

(e)if he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the ConstructionIndustry Development Authority; or

(f)if he has any financial or other interest as is likelyto affect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Council.

(3) Every appointed member shall unless he vacates officeearlier by death, resignation or removal, hold office for aterm of three years from the date of his appointment andshall unless he has been removed, be eligible forreappointment.

(4) The Minister may, if he considers it expedient to doso, remove from office any appointed member after assigningreasons therefor.

(5) Any appointed member may at any time resign hisoffice by letter to that effect addressed to the Minister andsent by registered post.

(6) In the event of vacation of office by death, resignationor removal of any appointed member, the Minister mayhaving regard to the provisions of paragraph (b) of subsection(1) appoint any other person to succeed such member. Anymember so appointed shall hold office for the unexpiredterm of office of the member whom he succeeds.

(7) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not lessthan three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties,it shall be the duty of such member to inform the Minister inwriting of such inability. The Minister may, on receipt ofsuch information, having regard to the provisions ofparagraph (b) of subsection (1) appoint some other person toact in his place.

7Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(8) No act or proceeding of the Council shall be invalidby reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the Councilor any defect in the appointment of a member of the Council.

(9) All decisions at any meeting of the Council shall bearrived at by the vote of a majority of the members present.In the case of an equality of votes, the member presidingshall have a casting vote.

(10) The members of the Council shall be remunerated insuch manner and at such rates as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Finance.

6.The objects of the Council shall be to

(a)formulate and amend the national policy onconstruction and its implementation mechanism;

(b)make representations to the Minister on any needfor the development of the construction industry;

(c)advise the Minister and make recommendations onany regulation to be made under this Act;

(d)advise and make recommendations to the Authorityon strategic issues, policies and legislativeproposals that may affect or which is incidental orconnected with the construction industry; and

(e)propose measures to the Authority which arenecessary for the development and sustenance ofthe construction industry.

7.(1) The Council shall meet at least once in threemonths. The Minister may however call a special meeting ifa need arises to discuss any matter of importance.

(2) The quorum for a meeting of the Council shall beeight members.

Objectives of theCouncil.

Meetings of theCouncil.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 20148

PART III

CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY

8.(1) There shall be established an authority called andknown as the Construction Industry DevelopmentAuthority (hereinafter referred to as the Authority).

(2) The Authority shall by the name assigned to it bysubsection (1), be a body corporate and shall have perpetualsuccession and a common seal and may sue and be sued insuch name.

9.(1) The management and administration of theaffairs of the Authority shall be vested in a Board ofManagement (hereinafter referred to as the Board) whichshall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members

(i)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Construction or anofficer not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary nominated by the Secretary; and

(ii)the Secretary to the Ministry of the Ministerin charge of the subject of Finance or anofficer not below the rank of a Senior AssistantSecretary nominated by the Secretary; and

(b)the following twelve members appointed by theMinister (hereinafter referred to as appointedmembers)

(i)a member of the Institution of Engineers,Sri Lanka nominated by the Institutionof Engineers, Sri Lanka established under theInstitution of Engineers, Sri Lanka Act,No. 17 of 1968;

Establishment ofthe ConstructionIndustryDevelopmentAuthority.

Managementandadministrationof the affairs ofthe Authority.

9Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(ii)a member of the Sri Lanka Institute ofArchitects nominated by the Sri Lanka Instituteof Architects established under the Sri LankaInstitute of Architects Law, No. 1 of 1976;

(iii)a member of the Sri Lanka Institute ofQuantity Surveyors, Sri Lanka nominated bythe Institute of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lankaestablished under the Institute of QuantitySurveyors, Sri Lanka (Incorporation)Act, No. 20 of 2007;

(iv)a member of the Association of ConsultingEngineers, Sri Lanka nominated by theAssociation of Consulting Engineers,Sri Lanka established under the Associationof Consulting Engineers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 42 of 2003;

(v)a member of the National ConstructionAssociation of Sri Lanka nominated by theNational Construction Association ofSri Lanka;

(vi)a member of the Chamber of ConstructionIndustry, Sri Lanka nominated by theChamber of Construction Industry, Sri Lanka;and

(vii)six other persons who are not members of theCouncil, of whom

(a)three persons who have significantlycontributed to the development of theconstruction industry in Sri Lanka; oneof whom shall be a person appointedupon the request of the President of theInstitution of Incorporated Engineers,Sri Lanka established under theInstitution of Incorporated Engineers,Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 64of 1992; and

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201410

(b)three other persons to represent thefields of

(A)Agriculture, Water Resources orEnvironmental Science;

(B)Public Health or Vocational Health; and

(C)Social, Cultural Heritage or TraditionalKnowledge.

(2) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers, to be the Chairman of the Board.

(3) The Minister shall appoint one of the appointedmembers as the Working Director of the Authority who shallbe a full time officer.

(4) A person shall be disqualified from being appointedor continuing as a member of the Board

(a)if he is, or becomes a member of Parliament or anyProvincial Council, or any local authority; or

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka; or

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in anyother country found or declared to suffer fromunsoundness of mind; or

(d)if he is serving or has served a sentence ofimprisonment imposed by any Court in Sri Lankaor any other country; or

(e)if he holds or enjoys any right or benefit under anycontract made by or on behalf of the Authority; or

(f)if he has any financial or other interest as is likelyto affect prejudicially the discharge by him of hisfunctions as a member of the Board.

11Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(5) Every appointed member shall, unless he vacatesoffice earlier by death, resignation or removal, hold officefor a term of three years from the date of his appointment andshall, unless he has been removed from office, be eligible forre-appointment.

(6) (a) The Minister may by Order published in the Gazetteremove any appointed member from office for reasonsassigned. A member in respect of whom an Order is so madeunder this section shall be deemed to have vacated office onthe date of publication of that Order in the Gazette.

(b) Any appointed member may at any time resign fromoffice by a letter to that effect, addressed to the Minister andsent by registered post.

(c) In the event of a vacation of office by death, resignationor removal of any appointed member nominated by anorganization set out in subsection (1) of section 9, theMinister may appoint any other person to succeed suchmember as nominated by such organization. If such memberwas not nominated by an organization, then the Ministermay appoint a suitable person from such organization tosucceed such member. Any member so appointed shall holdoffice for the unexpired term of office of the member whomhe succeeds.

(d) In the case of a member nominated by an organization,on the nomination of such a member being withdrawn bythe relevant organization, such member shall cease tofunction as a member of the Board.

(e) Where an appointed member, by reason of illness,infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka for a period of not lessthan three months, is temporarily unable to perform his duties,it shall be the duty of such member to inform the Minister inwriting of such inability. Thereupon, the Minister may,appoint some other person nominated by the relevantorganization or any suitable person if such member was notnominated by any organization, to act in his place.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201412

(7) The Minister may, for reasons assigned, remove theChairman or the Working Director of the Board.

(8) If the Chairman or the Working Director, by reason ofillness, infirmity or absence from Sri Lanka, is temporarilyunable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister maynominate another member of the Board to act in his place.

(9) The Chairman or the Working Director may, at anytime resign from office of the Chairman or the WorkingDirector by a letter addressed to the Minister. Such resignationshall take effect upon it being accepted by the Minister inwriting.

(10) Subject to the provisions of subsections (2) and (3),the term of office of the Chairman and the Working Directorshall be three years. The Chairman and the Working Directorshall be eligible for reappointment.

(11) The Chairman, Working Director and the appointedmembers of the Board may be paid such remuneration out ofthe fund of the Authority as the Minister may determine inconsultation with the Minister in charge of the subject ofFinance.

(12) The Chairman of the Board shall preside at everymeeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman at anymeeting, the members present shall elect one among theirmembers to preside at such meeting.

10.(1) The quorum for a meeting of the Board shall befive members and the Board may subject to other provisionsof this Act, regulate the procedure in respect of meetings ofthe Board and the transaction of business at such meetings.

(2) The Chairman or the member presiding at any meetingof the Board, shall, in addition to his own vote, have a castingvote where there is an equality of votes.

(3) The Board shall meet at least once in every month.

Meetings of theBoard.

13Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(4) No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall bedeemed to be invalid by reason only of the existence of anyvacancy in the Board or any defect in the appointment ofany member thereof.

11.(1) The seal of the Authority

(a)shall be in the custody of the Director-General ofthe Authority;

(b)may be altered in such manner as may be determinedby the Authority; and

(c)shall not be affixed to any instrument or documentexcept with the sanction of the Authority and inthe presence of the Chairman and another memberof the Authority who shall sign the instrument ordocument in token of their presence and suchsigning shall be independent of the signing of anyperson as a witness.

(2) The Authority shall maintain a register of theinstruments and documents to which the seal of the Authorityis affixed.

12.The objects of the Authority shall be

(a)to ensure the implementation of the National Policyon Construction in keeping with the directionsissued by the Minister in that regard under section 3;

(b)to provide strategic leadership to the stakeholdersof the construction industry to stimulate sustainablegrowth, reform, and improvement of theconstruction sector;

(c)to register and renew such registration of thestakeholders of the construction industry as maybe prescribed from time to time;

Seal of theAuthority.

Objects of theAuthority.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201414

(d)to promote sustainable growth of the constructionindustry with special attention to the design anddevelopment of energy efficient buildings andstructures;

(e)to promote appropriate research and disseminationand publication of research work on any matterrelating to the construction industry and itsdevelopment;

(f)to formulate, in consultation with other relevantauthorities, the standards in construction industryand categorize such standards as compulsory andvoluntary standards; and

(g)to implement the codes of conduct, practices,procedures and processes and documentationsrelating to construction industry as beingformulated by the Authority.

13.The functions of the Authority shall be

(a)to implement the policy formulated under section2 in keeping with the directions issued by theMinister in that regard under section 3;

(b)to formulate strategies for the development of theconstruction industry;

(c)to collate and publish materials and informationpertaining to the construction industry;

(d)to promote best practices relating to the constructionindustry;

(e)to implement the standards in construction workincluding the standards relating to quality ofmaterials used and workmanship in consultationwith the other relevant bodies;

Functions of theAuthority.

15Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(f)to recommend to any relevant authority to formulatenational procurement guidelines related toprocurement of works, goods and services inrelation to construction industry;

(g)to provide for and regulate the presentation ofnational awards for construction excellence,outstanding achievements in different fields ofconstruction and design and development ofenergy efficient buildings, structures andconstruction techniques;

(h)to promote the standards of professionalism andemployment in the construction industry;

(i)to foster and promote entrepreneurship inconstruction contractors of Sri Lanka;

(j)to provide for the registration and grading ofconstruction contractors;

(k)to provide for the registration of property developersand to grade them under financial and marketingcapabilities;

(l)to provide for the registration of persons competentto function as adjudicators on contractual disputes;

(m)to maintain a directory of importers, manufacturersand suppliers of construction materials andconstruction components used in the constructionindustry, as may be determined by the rules madeunder this Act;

(n)to maintain a Register of qualified persons asspecified in section 26;

(o)to provide for the registration of contractorsspecialized in the areas of electromechanicalinstallations, other building fixtures and any otherarea relating to construction;

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201416

(p)to provide for the registration and issuing of CraftIdentity Cards to skilled workers in constructiontrades as may be determined by the rules made underthis Act;

(q)to maintain a directory of heavy constructionplant, machinery and equipment available in thecountry;

(r)to undertake and facilitate the human resourcesdevelopment and training required for constructionindustry and to develop national standards fortraining and assessment in concurrence withrelevant national agency;

(s)to assess the competence of skilled workersengaged in the construction industry and issuecertificates to such persons who do not possess suchcertificates;

(t)to review and monitor the human resourcerequirements of the construction industry and tofacilitate the development of curricula for newlyemerging trades;

(u)to promote and facilitate local consultancy servicespertaining to construction industry and theundertaking of consultancy services in othercountries by local consulting firms;

(v)to promote and facilitate locally registeredcontractors undertaking construction works in othercountries;

(w)to provide information, advisory on matters relatingto the construction industry;

(x)to promote and encourage the adoption andpropagation of new technologies related toenvironmentally friendly, appropriate, cost efficientand affordable innovations;

17Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(y)to review and monitor any material, plant andmachinery requirements of the constructionindustry and to encourage the development anduse of local products in the construction works;

(z)to undertake, promote and co-ordinate research invarious branches of the construction industry andto conduct training programmes for theimprovement of quality and productivity of theconstruction industry;

(aa)to assist institutions concerned with theconstruction industry in the development of theiractivities;

(bb)to promote the construction of any building wherenecessary in a manner that may facilitate the easyaccess and use of such buildings by any elderly ordifferently abled persons;

(cc)to undertake or assist any other activity for thepromotion of the construction industry;

(dd)to maintain a national data base on constructionindustry;

(ee)to recommend to the relevant authority to regulatethe health and safety standards and the use ofhazardous material in construction industry;

(ff)to establish standards for technical auditing andmonitoring of the construction and managementprocesses and the outcome of construction workswhich include compliance with stipulatedconditions and approved standards;

(gg)to recommend to the Minster to declare any projector undertaking as an identified construction workfor the purposes of this Act.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201418

14.The Authority shall have such powers, as arenecessary or incidental to the discharge of its functions underthis Act, and in particular

(a)to acquire in any manner and hold, take or give onlease or hire, mortgage, pledge, sell or otherwisedispose of, any movable or immovable property;

(b)to appoint, employ, remunerate officers, servantsand agents for the purposes of this Act and toexercise disciplinary control over such officers,servants and agents;

(c)to enter into, and perform, directly or through anyservant or agent authorized in that behalf, all suchcontracts as may be necessary for the discharge ofthe functions of the Authority;

(d)to open, maintain and close accounts in any stateowned bank or any other financial institution withthe prior approval of the Ministry of Finance;

(e)to borrow such sums of money as may be necessaryfor the purpose of discharging the functions of theAuthority;

(f)to accept and receive grants, donations andbequests, both movable and immovable fromsources in or outside Sri Lanka and utilize them forthe discharge of the functions of the Authority:

Provided that, the Authority shall obtain priorwritten approval of the Director-General of theExternal Resources of the Ministry of the Ministerto whom the subject of Finance has been assigned,in respect of all foreign grants, donations andbequests;

(g)to make rules for the administration of the affairs ofthe Authority;

Powers of theAuthority.

19Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(h)to levy fees or charges on registration of serviceproviders of Construction Industry and renewal ofsuch registration or charges as may be prescribedfor any service rendered by the Authority; and

(i)to do all other acts and things which, from time totime, in the opinion of the Authority are necessaryor incidental to the proper discharge of the functionsof the Authority.

15.(1) There shall be appointed a Director-General bythe Authority who shall possess experience andqualifications in the field of construction and management.The Director-General shall be deemed to be a public officer.

(2) The Director-General shall, subject to the generaldirection and control of the Chairman of the Board, beresponsible for the administration and control of the officersand servants of the Authority.

16.The Authority may appoint such officers andservants as it may consider necessary for the efficient exercise,discharge and performance of its powers, duties and functionsunder this Act and shall determine the remuneration payableto, and the conditions of service and disciplinary controlover such officers and servants.

17.(1) At the request of the Authority any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and theSecretary to the Public Service Commission, be temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority for such period asmay be determined by the Authority or with like consent, bepermanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (2) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

Director-Generalof the Authority.

Staff of theAuthority.

Appointment ofPublic Officers.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201420

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Authority, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to and in relation to such officer.

(4) Where the Authority employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government by which hehas agreed to serve the Government for a specified period,any period of service with the Authority by that person shallbe regarded as service to the Government for the purpose ofdischarging the obligations of such contract.

(5) At the request of the Authority any officer of aProvincial Public Service may with the consent of that officerand the relevant Provincial Public Service Commission, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Authority for suchperiod as may be determined by the Authority or with likeconsent be permanently appointed to such staff.

18.(1) The Authority shall appoint in consultationwith relevant authorities, the following committees toformulate standards, rules and regulations in theConstruction Industry:

(a)the Committee on Technical Standards, Rules andRegulations;

(b)the Committee on Environmental and Public HealthStandards;

(c)the Committee on Ethical and Social ResponsibilityStandards.

(2) The members of such committees shall be selectedby the Authority in consultation with relevantprofessional bodies and other social and environmentalorganizations.

Appointment ofcommittees forimplementationof constructionstandards.

21Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

PART IV

CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY DEVELOPMENT FUND AND FUND

OF THE AUTHORITY FUND AND THE FUND OF THE AUTHORITY

19.(1) There shall be established a Fund known as theConstruction Industry Development Fund (in this Actreferred to as the Development Fund).

(2) There shall be paid into the Development Fund

(a)all such sums of money as may be received by theDevelopment Fund by way of loans, rent,donations, gifts or grants whether from foreign orlocal sources;

(b)all such sums collected as the Construction IndustryDevelopment Levy.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Development Fund allsuch sums of money as are required to defray any expenditureincurred by the Development Fund in the exercise of thepowers and discharge of the functions under this Act, subjectto following guidelines:

(a)more than fifty percentum (50%) of the fund shallbe reserved for the well-being of the small scalecontractors and self-employed registered craftsmen;

(b)not less than five percentum (5%) of the fund shallbe reserved for research and publications in the fieldrelated to construction industry;

(c)not less than five percentum (5%) of the fund shallbe reserved for the purpose of rewarding andencouraging the inventions, applications andpropagation of environmentally friendly and costefficient construction technologies;

ConstructionIndustryDevelopmentFund.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201422

(d)such amount as determined by the Authority isrequired to arrange long term insurance with pensionbenefits, for craftsmen registered with the Authoritywho are not entitled to any other form of retirementbenefits under any other law.

(4)(a) For the purposes of this section, the Minister towhom the subject of Construction is assigned shall impose alevy of cess to be called the Construction IndustryDevelopment Levy. The rate of the cess to be so leviedshall be as determined by the Minister to whom the subjectof Consruction is assigned with the concurrence of theMinister incharge of the subject of Finance as a percentageof construction cost of projects. Every such rate asdetermined shall be tabled in the Parliament for its approval.

(b) The Minister shall by Order published in the Gazettespecify, from time to time, the rate of cess as determinedunder paragraph (a) of this subsection. Any Order made underthis paragraph shall come into operation on the day of suchpublication in the Gazette.

(c) The Levy imposed under this section shall be collectedby the Director-General of Construction IndustryDevelopment Authority and shall be credited to theConstruction Industry Development Fund.

20.(1) The management and administration of the affairsof the Development Fund shall be vested with NationalAdvisory Council on Construction.

(2) The Minister may make regulations specifying themanner in which the Development Fund should beadministrated subject to paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) ofsubsection (3) of section 19.

21.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Development Fund.

Themanagement andadministrationof theDevelopmentFund.

Audit ofaccounts.

23Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

22.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the financial controlof the Development Fund.

23.(1) The Authority shall have its own Fund (in thisAct referred to as the Fund of the Authority).

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Authority

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted, from timeto time, by the Parliament for the use of theAuthority including such sums of money neededto defray the salaries and other emoluments of thestaff of the Authority;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority in the exercise, discharge andperformance of its powers, functions and duties;and

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theAuthority by way of loans, rents, donations, gifts,grants or levies and sale of assets.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authorityall such sums of money as are required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Authority in the exercise,discharge and performance of its powers, functions and dutiesunder this Act.

24.The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to audit of accounts of public corporations shallapply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund of theAuthority.

25.The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38of 1971 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the financial controlof the Authority.

Application ofFinance Act, No.38 of 1971.

Fund of theAuthority.

Application ofprovisions of theFinance Act, No.38 of 1971.

Audit ofaccounts.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201424

PART V

QUALIFIED PERSONS

26.(1) The Authority shall maintain a Register ofpersons recommended by the Credential Committee as beingqualified persons (hereinafter referred to as the Register ofQualified Persons) in the following disciplines:

(a)Engineering, in consultation with the Institute ofEngineers, Sri Lanka established under theInstitution of Engineers, Ceylon Act, No. 17 of 1968;

(b)Architecture, in consultation with the Sri LankaInstitute of Architects and Architects RegistrationBoard established under the Sri Lanka Institute ofArchitects Law, No. 1 of 1976;

(c)Quantity Surveying, in consultation with theInstitute of Quantity Surveyors, Sri Lankaestablished under the Institute of QuantitySurveyors, Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 20 of2007;

(d)Environmental and Public Health Engineering, inconsultation with relevant professional andacademic bodies; and

(e)any other discipline not specified under paragraphs(a), (b), (c) and (d) but relating to the disciplinesspecified in pargraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) and whichshall be as prescribed from time to time, on therecommendation of the relevant academic orprofessional bodies or any board of registrationrelating to construction industry established by anAct of Parliament.

(2) (a) The Minister shall, in consultation with anyrelevant professional or academic body or any board ofregistration established by an Act of Parliament, as the casemay be, prescribe the criteria for registration of persons whoare not members of any professional body or persons who

Register ofQualifiedPersons.

25Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

are not registered with any board of registration relating toconstruction industry established by an Act of Parliament,as specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1) andpersons belonging to the disciplines specified in paragraphs(d) and (e) of subsection (1).

(b) Any person who is a member of a professional body ora person registered under any board of registration relatingto construction industry established by an Act of Parliamentas specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1) shallbe a qualified person specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) ofsubsection (1) and shall be exempted from the criteria forregistration under this section.

(3) Any Person who wishes to register himself as a qualifiedperson shall apply to the Authority in that behalf. TheAuthority on receipt of such application shall

(a)in the case of an application received from anyprofessional body or board of registration relatingto construction industry established by an Act ofParliament, on behalf of a person who is a memberof such professional body or a person of such boardof registration as specified in paragraphs (a), (b) or(c) of subsection (1), register such person as aQualified Person under this Act and cause the namesof such persons to be included in the Register ofQualified Persons;

(b)in the case of an application received from a personwho is not a member of any professional body or aperson who in not registered under any board ofregistration relating to construction industryestablished by an Act of Parliament, as specified inparagraphs (a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1) and anyperson belonging to the disciplines specified inparagraphs (d) and (e) of subsection (1), refer suchapplication to the Credential Committee for itsrecommendation.

(4) The Authority shall on the basis of therecommendation made to it by the Credential Committee

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201426

under subsecion (3), appoint such persons so recommendedas qualified persons and cause the names of such personsto be included in the Register of Qualified Persons.

(5) The procedure for registration of qualified personsand renewal of such registration shall be as prescribed and aregistration number shall be issued to each such qualifiedperson upon the name of such person being entered in theRegister of Qualified Persons. Such Register shall be availablefor inspection by any person free of charge at the office ofthe Authority during office hours.

27.(1) The Authority shall appoint a CredentialCommittee which shall consist of not more than fifteenmembers out of whom, two members each shall be nominatedby the relevant academic and professional bodies and anyboard of registration relating to construction industryestablished by an Act of Parliament, as specified inparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of subsection (1) of section 26and Society of Structural Engineers Sri Lanka establishedunder the Society of Structural Engineers Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 40 of 2009.

(2) The function of such Credential Committee shall beto identify and categorize professional and vocationaldisciplines, minimum qualifications and experience requiredfor registration of construction manpower includingqualified persons under this Act, mode of practice ofsuch disciplines and to recommend to the Authority thepersons who may be registered as Qualified Persons underthis Act.

28.No person other than a qualified person shall beappointed for the purpose of, or engage in the carrying outof, designing, and preparation of required contractdocumentation and supervision of any identifiedconstruction work.

29.The Authority shall maintain records on theidentified construction works.

Only qualifiedpersons toengange inidentifiedconstructionworks.

Records to bemaintained.

CredentialCommittes andits functions.

27Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

Qualifiedpersons toadhere tostandards.

Local authorityapproval foridentifiedconstructionworks.

Conduct ofinvestigationsagainst qualifiedpersons.

30.Every qualified person shall adhere to the standardsof design and documentation maintained by respective bodyor board of registration or organization and where suchstandards are not maintained by any body or board ofregistration or organization, the qualified persons who aremembers of such body or organization or persons registeredunder such board of registration shall adhere to the standardsof the Authority as shall be prescribed, from time to time, inrespect of identified construction works.

31.Notwithstanding anything contained in any otherlaw, no local authority shall entertain any application forbuilding approval for any identified construction worksunless the architectural, structural, electrical and watersupply, sewerage and other designs and services relating tosuch construction are carried out by a qulified person.

32.(1) Any complaint against a qualified person relatingto

(a)any professional negligence, lack of competencyor violation of ethical and social standards;

(b)moral turpitude, malpractice, fraud or dishonesty;

(c)breach of any terms and conditions where hisregistration has been granted subject to any termsand conditions,

may be made to the Authority.

(2) Where the qualified person against whom anycomplaint has been made under subsection (1), is a memberof any professional body or a person registered under anyboard of registration relating to construction industryestablished by an Act of Parliament, specified in paragraphs(a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1) of section 26, the Authorityshall refer such complaint to the relevant professional bodyor any board of registration in the construction industryestablished by an Act of Parliament.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201428

(3) On receipt of a complaint by the relevant professionalbody or any board of registration relating to constructionindustry established by an Act of Parliament, it shall carryout an investigation in respect of the matters referred to itunder subsection (2). The findings in respect thereof shallbe forwarded to the Authority as expeditious as possibleand effect necessary disciplinary proceedings and reportback to the Authority.

(4) Where no recommendation is made by the relevantprofessional body or any board of registration relating tothe construction industry established by an Act ofParliament, under subsection (3), the Authority shallinvestigate into such matter and take necessary action.

(5) Any complaint against any qualified person who isnot a member of any professional body or a person registeredunder any board of registration relating to the constructionindustry established by an Act of Parliament, shall beinvestigated by the Authority in keeping with thedisciplinary procedure of the Authority as shall beprescribed.

33.(1) Any person requiring to engage a foreignconsultant as a qualified person in any identified constructionwork shall apply to the Authority for a provisionalregistration.

(2) Every foreign consultant shall, prior to being engagedin any identified construction work as a qualified person inSri Lanka, apply to the Authority for a provisionalregistration as a qualified person which shall be subject toyearly renewal on the condition that the registration is linkedto an approved project. The procedure for such registrationshall be as prescribed.

(3) Any person who performs as a qulified person to carryout any identified construction work without obtaining acertificate of registration issued by the Authority shall beguilty of an offence under this Act.

Engagement offoreignconsultants.

29Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

Register ofContractors.

Procedure forregistration ofcontractors andrenewal ofregistration.

(4) The provisions of this section shall not apply to anyforeign consultant who engages in any identifiedconstruction work under any project of the Government ofSri Lanka. However the Authority may obtain from theinstitutions which employ foreign consultatns, anyparticulars that may be required for the purpose of section55 of this Act and such institutions shall comply with anyrequest made by the Authority under this section.

PART VI

REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS, PROPERTY DEVELOPERS &C.

34.The Authority shall maintain a Register ofContractors in the manner and form as may be determinedby the Authority by rules made by the Authority in thatbehalf (hereinafter referred to as the Register ofContractors) which shall be available free of charge forinspection at the office of the Authority by any person duringoffice hours.

35.(1) An application for registration as a contractorshall be made to the Authority. The manner of registrationand fees shall be as prescribed.

(2) The Authority shall, in consultation with the relevantprofessional bodies and contractors associations appoint acommittee to consider the applications for registration ofpersons as contractors. Criteria for such registration shall beas prescribed and shall include specific provisions relatingto cost effective innovative technologies in order toaccommodate the potentials of the contractors registeredwith the National Engineering Research and DevelopmentCentre.

(3) Where any person is registered as a contractor, theAuthority shall issue to such person a Registration Numberand a Certificate of Registration.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201430

(4) The Certificate of Registration issued under thissection shall be valid for the period specified in suchCertificate and may be renewed on application made in thatbehalf and upon payment of the prescribed renewal fee.

36.(1) The Authority shall, where it receives anycomplaint against a contractor, refer such complaint to adisciplinary committee comprising eminent personsappointed by the Minister, which shall investigate and makerecommendations in respect thereof to the Authority. Theguidelines for disciplinary procedure shall be as prescribed.

(2) The disciplinary committee appointed under thissection shall in making its recommendations to theAuthority take the following matters into consideration

(a)Whether the contractor against whom the complainthas been made is found guilty of any professionalnegligence, lack of competency, moral turpitude,malpractice, fraud or dishonesty;

(b)Whether the contractor against whom the complainthas been made is in breach of his contractualobligations as a contractor;

(c)Whether the contractor against whom the complainthas been made is in breach of any terms andconditions subject to which such Certificate ofRegistration has been issued;

(d)Whether the contractor against whom the complainthas been made has obtained registration as acontractor by fraud or misrepresentation; or

(e)Whether the contractor against whom the complainthas been made has contravened or failed to complywith the provisions of this Act or any regulationmade thereunder.

Suspension orcancellation of aCerificate ofRegistration.

31Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

Appeals againstrefusal to registera contractor &c.

Employment ofregisteredcontractors inidentifiedconstructionworks.

Registration andemployment offoreigncontractors.

(3) The Authority may upon receipt of suchrecommendations made by the disciplinary committee underthis section suspend or cancel a Certificate of Registrationissued under this Act.

37.A person who is aggrieved by

(a)the refusal to register any contractor under thisAct; or

(b)the refusal to renew any Certificate of Registrationissued to any contractor; or

(c)the suspension or cancellation of a Certificate ofRegistration issued under this Act,

may within thirty days from the date of communication ofsuch refusal, suspension or cancellation, as the case may be,appeal to the Appeals Board established by section 53against such refusal, suspension or cancellation.

38.(1) Every identified construcion work shall be carriedout by a registered contractor according to the proceduresand standards as may be prescribed for such purpose.

(2) Any person who undertakes to carry out or carries outany identified construction works without obtaining aCertificate of Registration issued by the Authority shall beguilty of an offence under this Act.

39.(1) Every foreign contractor prior to engaging inany identified construction work in Sri Lanka shall obtain atemporary registration as a contractor. The procedure forregistration and renewal of such registration shall be asprescribed.

(2) No person shall engage a foreign contractor in anyidentified construction works unless such contractor isregistered with the Authority under this section.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201432

(3) The preceding provisions of this section shall not applyto a foreign contrator who has entered into an agreement withthe Government of Sri Lanka to engage in any identifiedconstruction work. However the Authority may obtain fromthe institutions which employ such foreign contractors, anyparticulars that may be required for the purpose of section 55of this Act and such institutions shall comply with any requestmade by the Authority under this section.

40.The Authority shall by rules made by the Authorityin that behalf establish a monitoring system for themonitoring of contractors registered under this Act.

41.The Authority shall maintain a Register of PropertyDevelopers which shall be available free of charge forinspection at the office of the Authority by any person duringoffice hours.

42.(1) An application for registration as a propertydeveloper shall be made to the Authority. The manner ofregistration and fees shall be as prescribed.

(2) The Authority shall, in consultation with the relevantprofessional bodies and property developers associationsappoint a committee to consider the applications forregistration of persons as property developers. Criteria forsuch registration shall be as prescribed.

43.The Authority shall maintain a Directory ofimporters, manufacturers and suppliers of constructionmaterials and construction components in the manner asmay be determined by the rules made by the Authority. SuchDirectory shall be available free of charge for inspection atthe office of the Authority by any person during office hours.

44.The Authority shall maintain a Directory of specifiedheavy construction machinery and equipment available inthe manner as may be determined by the rules made by theAuthority. Such Directory shall be available free of chargefor inspection at the office of the Authority by any personduring office hours.

Monitoring ofcontractors.

Register ofPropertyDevelopers

Procedure forregistration ofpropertydevelopers andrenewal ofregistration.

Directory ofimporters,manufactures,and suppliers ofconstructionmaterials andcomponents.

Directory ofheavyconstructionmachinery andequipment.

33Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

TechnicalAuditing.

PART VII

TECHNICAL AUDITING

45.(1) The Authority shall carry out technical auditingof any indentified construction work if requested to do soby the owner of such construction work or any Governmentorganization.

(2) The procedure and rates for the levying of fees inrespect of such technical auditing shall be as prescribed.

(3) For the purposes of this Act, Technical Auditingmeans the inspection of identified construction works, whichinclude construction process and management process aswell as the final product and examination of contractdocuments and documents pertaining to payments requestedto be made on contracts, in order to verify

(a)the compliance of the documentation relating toidentified construction works which are preparedin compliance with the requirements of this Act;

(b)the execution of identified construction works inconformity with the provisions of the contract andthe provisions of this Act;

(c)the compliance by parties referred to in thecontract, with their respective obligations underthe contract; and

(d)the compliance with the basic public health,occupational health and environmental standardsand technical standards which include efficientresource and energy utilization standards.

(4) The Authority shall register and maintain a register ofquality management auditors for the purpose of carryingout technical auditing. The procedure for registration andthe qualifications required of such auditors shall be asdetermined by the rules made by the Authority.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201434

PART VIII

STANDARD DOCUMENTS AND HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT

46.Any party that engages a qualified person as aconsultant or a registered contractor in any identifiedconstruction work shall use the standard documents specifiedfor the purpose by the Authority.

47.The Authority shall

(a)develop strategies to meet the future demandsfor qualified construction personnel, throughtraining;

(b)facilitate the conduct or conduct trainingprogrammes for quality and productivityimprovement;

(c)facilitate the development of national standards onskills and national trade tests;

(d)facilitate the development of curricula for the newlyemerging trades;

(e)establish a scheme for the exchange of informationrelating to construction training;

(f)conduct surveys related to training, manpowerneeds and related matters;

(g)facilitate the improvement of social recognition andstandard of the construction personnel;

(h)facilitate the development of a career path forconstruction personnel to enhance the humanresource requirements of the constructionindustry;

Standarddocumentsspecified by theAuthority to beused.

Human resourcedevelopment.

35Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(i)develop contract documents and implementingstrategies to support registered craftsmen and smallscale contractors who enter into individual contractswith clients without the involvement of qualifiedpersons; and

(j)facilitate translations of contract documentationinto Sinhala and Tamil languages.

48.(1) Any person who possesses any skill in any craftas may be determined by the rules made by the Authority,from time to time, may apply to the Authority for the issuanceof an Identity Card.

(2) The Authority may, considering the competency andcapacity of such applicant issue an Identity Card (hereinafterreferred to as a Craft Identity Card) to such person in theform and manner determined by the rules made by theAuthority with an identification number specifying thecategory and grade of such craft identity card holder.

(3) No person other than a craft identity card holder shallbe engaged independently in any identified constructionwork unless under the supervision of a craft identity cardholder on the relevant craft.

(4) Any person producing a forged or false craft identitycard to any other person or having in possession such forgedor false craft identity card or similar document shall be guiltyof an offence under this Act.

(5) Any craft identity card holder shall be entitled todisplay conspicuously in his place of work a board bearingthe description Registered Craftsman or RegisteredMaster Craftsman, as the case may be.

(6) The conditions relating to the issue of craft identitycards and the Code of Conduct for such craft identity cardholders shall be as prescribed.

Skilled persons.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201436

(7) The Authority shall not grant approval for theengagement of any foreign craftsman in any identifiedconstruction work if the required skills in any required areaare locally available.

(8) The Authority may subject to the approval of theCabinet of Ministers arrange any long term insurance policyor any pension scheme with the utilization of theDevelopment Fund for the craftsmen who are registered underthis Act.

(9) The Authority shall maintain a register of craft identitycard holders in the form and manner as may be determinedby the rules made by the Authority. Such register shall beavailable for inspection free of charge at the office of theAuthority.

49.(1) The Authority shall maintain a Register ofSkilled Construction Workers, Construction SiteSupervisors, Middle Level Technical Officers and otherprofessionals in the construction industry as shall beprescribed and which shall be available for inspection freeof charge at the office of the Authority.

(2) The registration of Skilled Construction Workers,Construction Site Supervisors, Middle Level TechnicalOfficers and other professionals in the construction industryshall be done according to different skills and qualifications,and the procedure for registration and renewal of suchregistration shall be determined by the Authority inaccordance with the rules made by the Authority.

PART IX

SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES

50.If the parties so desire any dispute relating to acontract for construction works, if it is not provided for inthe contract, may be settled through conciliation ormediation by the Authority.

Registration ofSkilledConstructionWorkers,Construction SiteSupervisors,Middle LevelTechnicalOfficers andotherprofessionals inthe constructionindustry.

Settlement ofdisputes throughconciliation ormediation by theAuthority.

37Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

51.(1) A party to any contract relating to an identifiedconstruction work, if unable to settle any dispute byconciliation or mediation by the Authority, may refer suchdispute for adjudication.

(2) The procedure for adjudication of any dispute underthis section shall be as prescribed.

For the purpose of this section, dispute includes anydifference of opinion between the parties to an identifiedconstruction work.

52.(1) The Authority shall maintain a Register ofAdjudicators who are competent to adjudicate disputesrelating to any contract of construction works in the formand manner as may be determined by the rules made by theAuthority. The Register of Adjudicators shall be availablefor inspection free of charge at the office of the Authority.

(2) The procedure for registration of such adjudicatorsand renewal of such registration shall be done according tothe procedure as may be prescribed.

PART X

APPEALS BOARD

53.(1) There shall be established for the purpose of thisAct, an Appeals Board consisting of not more than sevanmembers who shall be appointed by the Minister upon therecommendation of the Authority. All members of theAppeals Board shall be qualified persons as specified in thisAct with not less than twenty years of experience in the fieldof construction.

(2) Any person who is aggrieved by a decision of theAuthority made under this Act may appeal to the AppealsBoard in the manner as shall be prescribed.

Right to referfor adjudication.

Register ofAdjudicators.

Establishment ofAppeals Board.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201438

(3) Members of the Appeals Board may hold office for aterm of three years and shall be eligible for re-appointment.

(4) The provisions of subsection (2) of section 5 shallmutatis mutandis apply to appointment of members to theAppeals Board.

(5) There shall be a Secretary to the Appeals Board whoshall be appointed by the members of the Appeals Boardfrom amongst its members.

(6) The members of the Appeals Board shall beremunerated in such manner as may be determined by theMinister with the concurrence of the Minister in charge ofthe subject of Finance.

(7) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Appeals Boardmay regulate its own procedure at its meetings and thetransaction of business thereat.

54.(1) Every appeal made to the Appeals Board shall

(a)be in the prescribed form and accompanied by acopy of the decision appealed against;

(b)set out precisely the grounds of appeal; and

(c)be delivered to the Secretary of the Appeals Boardwithin thirty days from the date of the decision ofthe Authority.

(2) An appeal shall be heard by not less than threemembers of the Appeals Board.

(3) On receipt of an appeal, the Secretary of the AppealsBoard shall fix a date, time and place for the hearing of suchappeal, and shall give fourteen days notice thereof to theappellant and to the Authority.

(4) Every appellant may appear before the Appeals Boardin person or with an authorized representative.

Hearing anddetermination ofappeals.

39Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(5) After the hearing of an appeal the Appeals Board shallgive its decision within two months from the date on whichsuch appeal was received by the Appeals Board and mayconfirm, vary or reverse the decision appealed against.

(6) The decision of the Appeals Board and the reasonstherefor shall be notified in writing to the appellant and theAuthority.

(7) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the AppealsBoard in respect of any appeal made under subsection (1)may appeal against such decision to the Court of Appealwithin thirty days from the date on which the decision andthe reasons therefor were notified to the appellant.

PART XI

COLLECTION, PROCESSING AND DISTRIBUTION OF INFORMATION

IN THE CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY

55.(1) The Authority shall be responsible for themaintenance of a National Data Base in the constructionindustry for which a dedicated information secretariat(hereinafter referred to as the information secretariat) shallbe established within the Authority.

(2) The functions, procedures and performance standardsrequired of the information secretariat shall be as prescribed.

(3) The Authority shall have the power to instruct andrequest for information as follows :-

(a)from all State and private banks, in respect of thetotal financial facilities granted annually to anyproject or persons for any construction as may bedetermined by the Authority. Provided that, theprojects and persons involved in such constructionworks may not be disclosed;

Authority tomaintain aNational DataBase for theconstructionindustry.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201440

(b)from the National Housing Development Authorityestablished under the National HousingDevelopment Authority Act, No. 17 of 1979 inrespect of the number of loans and grants issued forconstruction purposes. Provided that, the projectsand the names of the beneficiaries of such loans orgrants may not be disclosed;

(c)from the Sri Lanka Customs, in respect ofinformation relating to the amounts and values ofall the imports and exports of construction material;

(d)from the Geological Survey and Mines Bureauestablished under the Mines and Mineral Act, No.32 of 1992 in respect of the statistics relating toriver sand and sea sand supplied to the market bylicense holders for sand mining;

(e)from all government and semi-government agenciesengaged in contracting or direct construction ofconstruction works, any particulars in respect ofany construction work as required by the Authorityin a specified format;

(f)from all qualified persons, registered contractorsand property developers, details in respect of anyconstruction work completed;

(g)from the Director-General of Vocational Training,details in respect of training programmes andoutcome of such training programmes related toconstruction industry;

(h)from all government and voluntary organizationswhich provide small and medium scale housingloans and grants in respect of the number andamount of such loans and grants. Provided that, thebeneficiaries of such loans or grants may not bedisclosed; and

41Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(i)from all local government authorities and all thestatutory bodies that grant permits and licenses forconstruction works, in respect of any details ofconstruction works as may be determined by theAuthority by the rules made by the Authority.

(4) Any person who fails to comply with any request forinformation in terms of subsection (1) shall notwithstandinganything contained in any other law be guilty of an offenceunder this Act.

(5) The Authority shall be responsible for the publicationof annual reports on the construction industry in the countryand dissemination of information to government and privateinstitutions and individuals on written requests made to theAuthority. The Authority shall charge such fees as may bedetermined for the performance of this service.

(6) The Authority shall at all times maintainconfidentiality as regard the information made available toit under this section, other than if disclosure is required interms of any written law for the time being in force, and shallnot make public, or provide to any other government orprivate institution, any information that would lead toidentification of individual contractors, manufacturers orsuppliers and information relating to their individualfinancial standings.

PART XII

GENERAL

56.(1) Any person who

(a)contravenes, or fails to comply with, any provisionof this Act or any regulation made thereunder; or

(b)being a member, officer or servant of the Authoritydiscloses any information obtained by him in theexercise of his powers or the performance of his

Offences.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201442

duties under this Act to any person for any purposeother than the purposes for which he is authorizedto disclose information by this Act,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.

(2) Any person who commits an offence under this Act,shall upon conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,be liable to a fine not exceeding rupees one hundredthousand or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding twoyears or to both such fine and imprisonment.

(3) Where an offence under this Act is committed by abody of persons, then

(a)if that body of persons is a body corporate, everydirector and officer of that body corporate; or

(b)if that body of persons is a firm, every partner ofthat firm,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act:

Provided however, that a director or officer of suchbody corporate or a partner of such firm shall not be deemedto be guilty of such offence if it is proved to the satisfactionof the court that he exercised all due diligence to preventthe commission of such offence.

57.(1) The Authority may make rules in respect of allmatters for which rules are required or authorized to be madeunder this Act.

(2) Every rule made by the Authority shall be publishedin the Gazette.

58.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect ofany matter required by this Act to be prescribed or in respectof any matter which regulations are required or authorizedby this Act to be made.

Regulations.

Rules.

43Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of its publication or on a later date as may bespecified in such regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, withinsix months after it is published in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is notso approved by the Parliament shall be deemed to berescinded as from the date of such disapproval, but withoutprejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(4) Notification of the date on which such regulation isdeemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

59.(1) The Authority may subject to such conditionsas may be specified in writing, delegate to any officer of theAuthority any of the powers conferred on it by this Act or byany regulation made thereunder.

(2) Notwithstanding any such delegation, the Authoritymay continue to exercise any such power so delegated.

60.(1) The Authority or any officer authorized in writingin that behalf by the Authority shall, on receipt of anycomplaint by any person in respect of an identifiedconstruction work, have the power on reasonable groundsand production, if so required his credentials, to enter at allreasonable hours of the day any premises where identifiedconstruction work is being carried out or any completedidentified construction work, for the purpose of conductingany survey, examination or investigation in respect of suchidentified construction work.

(2) Where the owner or occupier of that identifiedconstruction work unfairly refuses the conducting of suchsurvey, examination or investigation by the Authority undersubsection (1), the Authority may obtain from a MagistratesCourt a search warrant for the purpose of entering such landor premises and exercise all or any of the powers conferredupon the Authority by such search warrant.

Delegation ofpowers.

Power to enterany land orpremises.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201444

61.(1) No person in charge of any land or premisesspecified in section 60 shall knowingly or will fully, resistor obstruct any officer or servant of the Authority in thelawful performance and discharge of his duties or functionsunder section 60.

(2) Any person who acts in contravention of theprovisions of subsection (1) of this section shall be guilty ofan offence under this Act.

62.All members, officers and servants of the Authorityshall be deemed to be public servants within the meaningand for the purpose of the Penal Code (Chapter 19).

63.The Authority shall be deemed to be a scheduledinstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act, and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

64. (1) Any expense incurred by the Authority in anysuit or prosecution brought by or against the Authority beforeany court shall be paid out of the Fund of the Authority, andany costs paid to, or recovered by the Authority in any suchsuit or prosecution shall be credited to the Fund of theAuthority.

(2) Any expenses incurred by any member, officer or anyservant of the Authority in any suit or prosecution broughtby or against such person before any court in respect of anyact or omission which is done or purported to be done bysuch person in good faith for the purpose of carrying out theprovisions of this Act shall, if the court holds that such act oromission was done in good faith, be paid out of the fund ofthe Authority unless such expenses are recovered by him insuch suit or prosecution.

65.(1) The Gazette Extraordinary No. 718/15 of June10, 1992 issued under the State Industrial Corporations Act,No. 49 of 1957 shall be deemed to be rescinded from suchdate as the Minister shall specify by Order published in theGazette.

Repeals andSavings.

Resisting orobstructing theAuthority &c.

Members,officers andservants of theAuthoritydeemed to bepublic servants.

ScheduledInstitutionwithin themeaning of theBribery Act.

Expensesincurred in anysuit orprosecution.

45Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(2) All employees of the Institute for ConstructionTraining and Development established by GazetteExtraordinary No. 718/15 of June 10, 1992 issued under theState Industrial Corporations Act, No. 49 of 1957, on theday immediately preceding the day specified in the Orderunder subsection (1), who have not reached their respectiveages of retirement, shall on the appointed date, be offeredemployment in the Authority, on terms and conditions noless favorable to the terms and conditions of employmentapplicable to them on the day immediately preceding theday specified in the aforesaid Order.

(3) Any employee referred to in subsection (2), who wishesto opt out of service in the Authority may do so within threemonths from the date on which he was notified of theavailable offer of serving in the Authority. If any suchemployee as referred to in subsection (2) exercises his optionnot to accept the offer, he shall be paid compensation undera voluntary retirement scheme to be implemented in thatbehalf, with the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers.

(4) Notwithstanding the rescission of the aforementionedOrder

(a)all movable and immovable property of the Institutefor Construction Training and Development shall,from the date specified in the Order made undersubsection (1), vest in the Authority;

(b)all contracts and agreements entered into by or withthe Institute for Construction Training andDevelopment and subsisting on the dayimmediately preceding the date specified in theOrder made under subsection (1), shall be deemedto be contracts and agreements entered into, by orwith the Authority;

(c)all suits, actions and other legal proceedingsinstituted by or against the Institute forConstruction Training and Development andpending on the day immediately preceding the date

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201446

specified in the Order made under subsection (1),shall with effect from the date specified in theaforesaid Order be deemed to be suits, actions andother proceedings instituted by, or against theAuthority;

(d)all rights, liabilities and obligations of the Institutefor Construction Training and Developmentsubsisting on the day immediately preceding thedate specified in the aforesaid Order, shall with effectfrom the date specified in the aforesaid Order bedeemed to be the rights, liabilities and obligationsof the Authority;

(e)every decree, Order or judgment entered in favourof or against the Institute for Construction Trainingand Development by any competent court andremaining unsatisfied on the day specified in theaforesaid Order, shall with effect from such date bedeemed to be a decree, Order or judgement enactedin favour of or against the Authority and mayenforce accordingly.

(5) All books, accounts and documents relating to anyproperty of the Institute for Construction Training andDevelopment and publications and registers of the Institutefor Construction Training and Development shall remain inforce and effectual and be deemed to be publications andregisters of the Authority.

66.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

67.In this Act unless the context otherwise requires

construction work means, operations of any of thefollowing descriptions

(a)construction, alteration, repair, maintenance,extension, demolition or dismantling ofbuildings, or structures forming, or to form partof the land (whether permanent or not);

Interpretation.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

47Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

(b)construction, alteration, repair, maintenance,extension, demolition or dismantling of anyworks forming, or to form, part of the land,including (without prejudice to the foregoing)walls;

(c)installation in any building or structure offittings forming part of the land, including(without prejudice to the foregoing) systems ofheating, lighting, air-conditioning, ventilation,power supply, drainage, sanitation, water supplyor fire protection or security or communicationsystems;

(d)external or internal cleaning of buildings andstructures, so far as carried out in the course ofthe construction, alteration, repair, extension orrestoration;

(e)operations which form an integral part of, or arepreparatory to, or are for rendering complete,such operations as are previously described inthis section, including site clearance,earthmoving, excavation, tunneling and boring,laying of foundations, erection, maintenance ordismantling of scaffolding, site restoration,landscaping and the provision of roadways andother access works;

(f)painting or decorating the internal or externalsurfaces of any building or structure;

construction contract means an agreement with aperson or entity for any of the following:

(a)the carrying out of construction work;

(b)arranging for the carrying out of constructionwork by others, whether under sub-contract orotherwise to such person or entity, as the casemay be;

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201448

(c)providing his own labour or labour owned bythe entity or the labour of others, for carryingout of construction work;

contractor means any person or entity executingconstruction works under a construction contract;

constructor means any person who undertakes,whether exclusively or in conjunction with anyother business to carry out any construction workon his own account or for or on behalf of anotherperson;

consultant means any qualified person or entityproviding consultancy services under an agreementfor construction work;

documentation means preparation of tender andbidding documents including bills of quantities,contract documents, drawings and specificationsand any document pertaining to tenders orcontracts;

externally funded projects shall include any projectfunded by any donor agency or lending agency orany foreign government through the ExternalResources Department of the General Treasury;

identified construction works means

(a)all buildings, structures, or any building orstructure or landscape which consists of facilitiesand amenities for public use exceeding in valuerupees ten million or such higher value as maybe prescribed by the Minister, from time to time;and

(b)all buildings, structures or landscapes whichneed approval of environmental, geological andcultural heritage regulatory bodies.

49Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 2014

Any private residential building constructed for thepersonal use of any private owner shall be excludedfrom the definition of the expression identifiedconstruction works;

completed identified construction works means anyidentified construction work for which a certificateof completion or taking over certificate has beenissued;

Minister means the Minister in charge of the subjectof Construction:

property developer means an entrepreneur whopromotes any project in the construction industry,specially in the housing sector which are eitherphysically or conceptually developed by the gainof inputs of lands, land ownership, financing,marketing or any other required expertise;

qualified person is a person who is competent incarrying out designing, preparation of requiredcontract documents and supervision of anyidentified construction works, whose name isincluded in the Register of Qualified Persons;

supervision means to ensure that the engineering andarchitectural concepts and judgments incorporatedin the design are properly adhered to in anyconstruction work.

Construction Industry DevelopmentAct, No. 33 of 201450

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.