PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
| 3rd Session 1967-68:= =

SN

'¢ .

Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

Date of Assent: May 31, 1968

Printed on the Orders of Government

Printed at the GOVERNMENT PRESS, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
PUBLICATIONS Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before
20th December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills issued
before the date of payment will not be supplied.

Price: 90 cents Postage: 20 cents


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

L. D.—O. 9/66.

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT
AND REGULATION OF A UNIVERSITY FOR BHIKKHUS.

[Date of Assent: May 31, 1968]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows :—

4. This Act may be cited as the Buddha Sravaka
Dharmapithaya Act, No. 16 of 1968.

PART I
THE BuppHA SRAVAKA DHARMAPITHAYA

2. (1) There shall be established a unitary and
residential University for Bhikkhus. The University,
so established, shall have the name and style of ‘* The
Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya ’’.

(2) The University shall have its seat on such site
as the Minister may determine by Order published in
the Gazette.

(3) The Dharmapithadhipati and the members for
the time being of the Anusasaka Mandalaya, the
Board of Education and Administration and the
Dayaka Mandalaya shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and with the same name as that
assigned to the University by sub-section (1), and
shall have power in such name—

(a) to sue and be sued in all courts ;
(b) to have and use a common seal ;

(c) for the purposes of this Act and subject to the
Statutes and Rules to purchase, acquire by
gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise,
take on lease or hire, and hold any movable
or immovable property ;

(d) to sell, hypothecate, lease, exchange or otherwise
dispose of any such property ; and

(e) to exercise and perform in accordance with the
provisions of this Act and of the Statutes
and Rules, whenever necessary, all the powers
and duties conferred or imposed on the
University by any of such provisions: :

2——H _ 8011—8,682 (10/67)

Short title.

Establishment
and incorpora-
tion of Buddhse
Sravaka
Dharmapithays.


Objects of the
University.

Powers of the
University,

Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

Provided that any sale, hypothecation, lease,

exchange or other disposition of any such property
shall be void if it is made in contravention of any
restriction, condition or prohibition imposed by law
or by the instrument by which the property was vested
in the University.

3. The objects of the University shall be—

(a) to train Bhikkhus in accordance with the teach-
ings of the Buddha ;

(b) to promote meditation among the students of the
University ;

(c) to train Bhikkhus for the propagation of the
teachings of the Buddha in Ceylon and
abroad ;

(zd) to encourage the study of, and research in,
Buddhism ; and
(e) to promote Buddhist culture.

4. The University shall, subject to the provisions

of this Act and of the Statutes and Rules, have the
power—

(a) to provide for instruction in the following sub-
jects, namely, Sutra, Abhidharma, Vinaya,
Buddhist Philosophy and Logic, Buddhist
History and Culture, Comparative Religion
and Languages and to establish in respect of
each of such subjects, or a group of such
subjects, a Department of Study ;

(b) to hold examinations for the purpose of ascer-
taining the persons who have acquired
proficiency in different branches of study;

(c) to provide post-graduate courses in Dharmaduta
Activities and Buddhist Education and for
this purpose to co-operate with other Univer-
sities or Authorities, in such manner and for
such purposes as the University may
determine ;

(d) to grant and confer such degrees, diplomas and
other distinctions as under this Act are
determined by the Board of Education and
Administration and approved by the Minis-
ter, to and on persons who have pursued
approved courses of study in the University
and who have passed the necessary examina-
tions of the University ;


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 3
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(e) to institute such teaching and other posts or such
offices as may be necessary for the purposes
of the University, to make appointments to
such posts or offices and to determine the
conditions of employment ;

(f) to confer honorary degrees or other distinctions
on approved persons ;

(g) to erect, equip and maintain for the purposes
of the University, libraries and other build-
ings whether for instructional or residential
purposes ;

(h) to manage Halls of Residence for the residence
of students of the University ;

(i) to regulate and provide for the residence,
discipline and moral, mental and_ physical
well-being of officers, teachers, students and
servants of the University ;

(j) to establish and regulate by Statute a provident
fund for the benefit of the officers of the Uni-
versity who are not Bhikkhus and of the
servants of the University and to make contri-
butions to such fund out of the University
Fund ; and

(k) to do all such other acts incidental to the powers
aforesaid aS may be requisite in order to
further the objects of the University.

PART II

Tur DHARMAPITHADHIPATI AND THE OFFICERS OF
THE UNIVERSITY

8. (1) The Dharmapithadhipati of the University
shall be an Upasampada Bhikkhu who has completed
twenty years after Upasampada.

(2) The Dharmapithadhipati shall be appointed by
the Minister out of a panel of at least three names
recommended by the Anusasaka Mandalaya.

(3) The Dharmapithadhipati shall be a whole-time
officer of the University. He shall be a member and
the Chairman of the Board of Education and
Administration. He shall be entitled to convene all
meetings of the Board of Education and Administra-
tion and shall preside at such meetings.

The Dharma-
pithadhipati.


The Secretary
of the
University.

4 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya

Act, No. 16 of 1968

(4) It shall be the duty of the Dharmapithadhipati
to secure that the provisions of this Act and of the
Statutes and Rules are duly observed and he shall
have and may exercise all such powers as he may deem
necessary for the purpose.

(5) The Dharmapithadhipati shall give effect to the
decisions made under this Act in regard to the
administration of the University, and shall exercise
general supervision over the educational arrangements
of the University. He shall be responsible for the
discipline of the University in accordance with this
Act and the Statutes and Rules and shall exercise and
penton such other powers and duties as may be con-

erred or imposed on him by this Act or by Statute or
Rule.

(6) The Dharmapithadhipati shall hold office for a
term of five years but may be reappointed in
accordance with the provisions of this section.

(7) If any vacancy occurs in the office of Dharma-
pithadhipati or if the Dharmapithadhipati, by reason
of leave, illness, or other cause, is unable, temporarily,
to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may,
within fourteen days of such vacancy or inability,
make such arrangements as he may think fit for
carrying on the office. Until such arrangements have
been made, the Secretary of the University shall carry
on the routine duties of the office.

6. (1) The Secretary shall be a whole-time officer
of the University. He shall be the Secretary to the
Anusasaka Mandalaya, to the Board of Education and
Administration and to the Dayaka Mandalaya. He
shall be the chief accounting officer of the University
and shall be responsible for the proper administration
of the moneys and properties of the University and
in the performance of such duty he shall act in con-
formity with any decision or order made, or any
direction given, by the Dayaka Mandalaya in respect
of the administration of the funds and properties of
the University. He shall exercise and perform all
such powers and duties as may be conferred or impos-
ed on him by this Act or by Statute or Rule. He shall.
in addition, assist the Dharmapithadhipati whenever

he is called upon to do so.


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 5
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(2) Any fit person who professes Buddhism and who
is not a Bhikkhu may be appointed by the Minister
as the Secretary of the University for such period as
the Minister may determine:

Provided that an officer in the public service shall
not be appointed as Secretary of the University except
with the consent of that officer and the Secretary to
the Treasury.

(3) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 18 of
the Higher Education Act, No. 20 of 1966, shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to any officer of
the public service who is appointed as Secretary of the
University.

7. The Librarian shall be a whole-time officer of
the University and he shall exercise and perform such
powers and duties as may be prescribed by Statute or
Rule.

8. (1) There may be appointed in accordance with
the provisions of this Act and of the Statutes and
Rules such number of officers as may be necessary for
the purposes of the University.

(2) An officer appointed under this section shall
exercise and perform all such powers and duties as
may be prescribed by Statute or Rule.

PART III

THE UNIVERSITY AUTHORITIES
9. The Authorities of the University shall be—
(i) the Anusasaka Mandalaya ;

(ii) the Board of Education and Administration;
and

(111) the Dayaka Mandalaya.

_ (1) The Anusasaka Mandalaya shall consist

@) a

(i) the Maha Nayake Thera of the Malwatta
Chapter of the Siamese Nikaya ;

(ii) the Maha Nayake Thera of the Asgiriya Chapter
of the Siamese Nikaya ;

(iii) the President of the Sri Lanka Amarapura
Mahasangha Sabha ;

The Librarian.

Other officers.

Authorities
of the
University.

The Anusasa’:
Mandalaya.


Powers, duties
and functions
of the
Anusasaka
Mandalaya.

6 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya

Act, No. 16 of 1968

(iv) the Maha Nayake Thera of the Ramanna
Nikaya ;

(v) the Nayake Thera of the Anuradhapura Atamas-
thana ; and

(vi) not more than three other Theras nominated
by the Minister.

(2) The Chairman of the Anusasaka Mandalaya
shall be elected by the Anusasaka Mandalaya from
among its members for the time being and shall hold
office for three years from the date of such election;
he shall however be eligible for re-election to the
office of Chairman.

(3) There shall be not less than three ordinary
meetings of the Anusasaka Mandalaya in a year
convened so that there shall be as nearly as may be at
least one ordinary meeting every four months. A
special meeting of the Anusasaka Mandalaya shall
be convened by the Secretary of the University on a
direction from the Chairman of the Mandalaya or
the Minister or on a requisition made in that behalf
and signed by not less than three members for the
time being of the Anusasaka Mandalaya.

(4) The quorum for a meeting of the Anusasaka
Mandalaya shall be three.

44. Subject to the provisions of this Act and of
the Statutes and Rules, the Anusasaka Mandalaya
shall have and perform the following powers, duties
and functions :— x .

_ (a) to advise the Board of Education and Adminis-
tration and the Dayaka Mandalaya on matters
relating to the University;

(b) to determine any such disputes on matters
relating to the University as may arise
between the Board of Education and
Administration and the Dayaka Mandalaya;
and a BS


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 7
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(c) to do or perform any other act or duty authorized,
or imposed upon the Anusasaka Mandalaya,
by this Act.

42. (1) The Board of Education and Administra-
tion shall be the executive body of the University.

(2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3) the
Board of Education and Administration shall consist
of—

(a) the Dharmapithadhipati who shall be the Chair-
man of the Board of Education and
Administration ;

(b) the Head of each Department of Study in the
University ;

(c) six Bhikkhus nominated by the Anusasaka
) Mandalaya ;

(d) the Chairman of the Dayaka Mandalaya ;
(e) the Librarian ;

(f) the Director-General of Education or an officer
nominated in that behalf by the Director-
General of Education provided, however,
that the officer so nominated is a person who
professes Buddhism; and

(g) the Director of Cultural Affairs.

(3) Where the Director-General of Education or the
Director of Cultural Affairs is a person who does not
profess Buddhism, the Minister shall, in place of the
Director-General of Education or the Director of
Cultural Affairs, as the case may be, nominate to the
Board of Education and Administration an officer who

holds a post of similar status and who professes
Buddhism.

(4) In the absence of the Chairman of the Board of
Education and Administration from any meeting of
the Board, the members of the Board present at the
meeting shall elect from their own number a Chairman
for that meeting.

The Board of
Education and
Administration.


Powers, duties
and functions
of the Board of
Education and
Administration.

8 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya

Act, No. 16 of 1968

(5) The quorum for a meeting of the Board of
Education and Administration shall be seven.

43. Subject to the provisions of this Act and of
the Statutes and Rules, the Board of Education and
Administration shall have and perform the following
powers, duties and functions :—

(a) to regulate and determine all matters concerning
the educational organization of the Univer-
sity in accordance with this Act, the Statutes
and Rules;

(b) to regulate the admission of students to the
University ;
(c) to exercise such powers of the University as
relate to—
(i) the establishment of Departments of
Study and the imparting of instruc-
tion ;
(ii) the holding of examinations of the
University ;
(iii) the grant to, or the conferment on,
persons of degrees, diplomas or other
distinctions of the University ;

(iv) the provision of post-graduate courses;

(v) the institution of teaching posts, the
making of appointments thereto and
the conditions of employment of
teachers ;

(vi) the maintenance of discipline in the
University; and

(vii) the conferment of honorary degrees ;

(d) to suspend or dismiss or otherwise punish any
teacher of the University on the grounds of
incapacity or conduct which renders him unfit
to be a teacher of the University if a decision
to the effect that he is so unfit is made by the
Board of Education and Administration ;


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 9
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(e) to consider, amend or adopt the estimates of the
University as prepared by the Dayaka
Mandalaya :

Provided that any such amendment shall
only be made at a joint meeting of the Board
of Education and Administration and the
Dayaka Mandalaya,;

(f) to make Statutes and by Statute to amend, add
to, alter or repeal any Statute; and

(g) to exercise all other powers of the University,
the exercise of which is not otherwise provi-
ded for by this Act or by Statutes or Rules.

144. A member of the Board of Education and
Administration who is not a Bhikkhu may be present
at any meeting of the Board where any matter—

(a) relating to the conduct or capacity of a teacher
of the University; or

(b) relating to the conduct—

(i) of any graduate of the University, or

(ii) of any person who is the holder of a
diploma or other distinction granted
or conferred by the University and
who is a Bhikkhu, or

(iii) of any student of the University who is
a Bhikkhu,
is discussed and may take part in the discussion but
he shall not participate in the decision of the Board
on such matter by voting thereon.

15. (1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2),
the Dayaka Mandalaya shall consist of—

(a) nine members nominated by the Minister from
persons who profess Buddhism and who are
not Bhikkhus; and

Restrictions on
voting by cer-
tain members of
the Board of
Education and
Administration
on certain
matters.

The Dayaka
Mandalaya.


Powers, duties
and functions
of the Dayaka
Mandalaya.

10 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(b) the Director of Cultural] Affairs.

(2) Where the Director of Cultural Affairs is a
person who does not profess Buddhism, the Minister
shall, in place of the Director of Cultural Affairs,
nominate to the Dayaka Mandalaya an officer who

holds a post of similar status and who professes
Buddhism.

(3) The Minister shall appoint one of the members
of the Dayaka Mandalaya nominated by him as the
Chairman of the Dayaka Mandalaya.

(4) The Minister may, without assigning any
reason, remove from office the Chairman of the Dayaka
Mandalaya or any member of the Dayaka Mandalaya
nominated by him.

(5) In the absence of the Chairman of the Dayaka
Mandalaya from any meeting of the Dayaka Man-
dalaya, the members of the Dayaka Mandalaya
present at the meeting shall elect from among their
own number a Chairman for the meeting.

(6) The quorum for a meeting of the Dayaka
Mandalaya shall be five.

46. Subject to the provisions of this Act and the
Statutes and Rules, the Dayaka Mandalaya shall have
and perform the following powers, duties and
functions : —

(2) to administer the moneys and properties of the
University and to invest any moneys belong-
ing to the University, including any
unapplied income, in any security in which
under the provisions of section 20 of the
Trusts Ordinance or of any written law, it
is lawful to invest trust moneys; or with the
approval of the Minister of Finance, to
invest any such moneys in the purchase of


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 11
Act, No. 16 of 1968

immovable property in Ceylon or vary such
investments; or to place on fixed deposit in
any bank approved by the Minister of
Finance any portion of such moneys not
required for immediate expenditure;

(b) to appoint officers of the University whose
appointments are not otherwise provided for
and servants of the University, to determine
all matters relating to their conditions of
employment and to suspend or dismiss or
otherwise punish any such officer or servant
on the grounds of incapacity or conduct
which, in the opinion of the members of the
Dayaka Mandalaya, renders him unfit to be
an Officer or a servant of the University;

(c) to manage Halls of Residence for the residence
of the students of the University;

(zd) to make such provision as may be necessary to
enable a teacher of the University to main-
tain a standard of life as befits his position;

(e) to provide teachers of the University with
facilities for such travel as is necessitated by
their work in the University;

(f) to receive and accept bequests, donations and
grants of any property to the University;

(g) to prepare the financial estimates of the
University ;

(h) to consider the annual accounts of the Univer-
sity and cause such accounts to be audited
by an auditor appointed by the Auditor-
General and when audited, to be published
in the Gazette; and

(7) to deal with all financial matters pertaining to
the University.

17. No act or proceeding of any Authority shall Vacancy in, or
be invalid by reason only of the existence of any SiSintment oc

¥ . : : nomination of
acancy among its members ‘or any defect in the peommauon &

appointment or nomination of a member thereof. an Authority
not to invalidate
any act of the
Authority.


Statates.

12 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

PART IV
STATUTES AND RULES

18. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act,
Statutes may be made by the Board of Education and
Administration providing for all or any of the
following matters :—

(a) the conditions of appointment and emoluments
of the teachers, officers and servants of the
University and the powers and duties of such
teachers and officers ;

(b) the organization of the different Departments
of Study;

(c) the admission of students to the University;
(d) the discipline of students;

(e) the courses of study for the different degrees and
diplomas of the University;

(f) the conditions under which students shall be
admitted to the degree or diploma courses and
to the University examinations and be
eligible for degrees and diplomas ;

(g) the procedure of Convocations of the University
for the grant or conferment of degrees,
diplomas or other distinctions;

(A) the conditions and mode of appointment, the
duties and the emoluments of examiners and
the conduct and standard of examinations;

(*) the administration of the moneys and proper-
ties of the University;

(j) matters connected with the exercise and
performance of the powers, duties and
functions of the Dayaka Mandalaya; and

(k) matters for which Statutes are required or
permitted by this Act to be made or matters
connected with the exercise or performance of
the powers, duties or functions of the Board
of Education and Administration.

(2) It shall be lawful by Statute to add to, amend,
alter or repeal any Statute for the time being in force.

(3) No Statute shall take effect until it is approved
by the Minister and published in the Gazette.


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 13
Act, No. 16 of 1968

19. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and of
the Statutes, the Authorities of the University may
make Rules providing—

(a2) for all matters of procedure at the meetings of
such Authorities, for the holding of their
meetings, for the keeping of their records and
generally for all other matters relating to
their business; and

(6) for all matters for which Rules are required or
permitted by this Act to be made.

(2) It shall be lawful by Rule to add to, amend, alter
or repeal any Rule for the time being in force.

PART V.
EXAMINATIONS AND COURSES OF STUDY

20. All examinations held by the University shall
be conducted in such manner as shall be prescribed by
Statute.

24. (1) No person shall be eligible for admission to
acourse of study for a degree of the University
unless—

(a) he is a Bhikkhu,

(b) he has for at least three academic years been a
whole-time student in any such Pirivena as
is approved for the purposes of this section
by the Board of Education and Adminis-
tration, and

(c) has passed the Preliminary Examination of the
Oriental Studies Society in Sinhala, Pali and
Sanskrit or an equivalent or higher
examination in the same subjects.

22. (1) Any male person, whether he is a Bhikkhu
or not, shall, subject to the Statutes, be eligible for
admission to a post-graduate course at the
University—

_ (a) if he has obtained a degree of the University,
or

(b) if he has obtained a degree at any other
University in the subject or subjects relevant
to the post-graduate course, such other
University being a University the examin-
ations of which are recognized as equivalent
to the examinations of the University.

Rules.

Examinations.

Admissions and
period of study
for graduation.

Post-graduate
courses,


Appointment of
teachers.

Remuneration
of teachers,
officers and
servants,

Financial year.

University
ond.

14 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(2) The number of persons, other than Bhikkhus,
admitted to follow post-graduate courses in the
University shall not, at any time, exceed twenty-five.

PART VI

PROVISIONS RELATING TO TEACHERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY

23. (1) No person who is not a Bhikkhu shall be
appointed to the permanent staff of the University
as a teacher.

(2) A male person who is not a Bhikkhu may be
appointed as a visiting teacher.

(3) Every appointment to a post of teacher in the
University shall be made by the Board of Education
and Administration after considering the recommen-
dation of a Board of Selection, the members of which
shall be—

(i) the Dharmapithadhipati,

(ii) two members appointed by the Board of Educa-
tion and Administration from among its
own body,

(iii) the Director-General of Education or an officer
nominated by him in that behalf, and

(iv) the Director of Cultural Affairs.

24. (1) A Bhikkhu who is appointed to any post
in the University shall not be paid any emoluments.
The Dayaka Mandalaya shall, in respect of such
Bhikkhu, make such provision as may be necessary to
enable him to maintain a standard of life befitting
his position. Any expenses incurred in that behalf
by the Dayaka Mandalaya shall be charged to the
University Fund.

(2) Persons, other than Bhikkhus, in the employ of
the University may be paid such emoluments as may
be determined by Statute. |

PART VII
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

25. The financial year of the University shall be
the same as the financial year of the Government.

96. There shall be a fund to be called the
University Fund, into which shall be paid—
(a2) the income from endowments made to the
University ;


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 15
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(b) moneys provided by Parliament as grants in aid
of the University; and

(c) all other moneys belonging to the University
from whatsoever source derived.

27. (1) The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury
shall, as soon as may be after the commencement of
each financial year, pay to the University such moneys
as may be provided by Parliament under the annual
Appropriation Act as a grant in aid of the
University.

(2) The Deputy Secretary to the Treasury shall,
from time to time, pay to the University such moneys
as may be provided by Parliament, by way of a
supplementary vote or otherwise, as a grant in aid of
the University.

(3) All moneys paid under the preceding sub-
sections of this section to the University shall be
applied or expended by the University for all or any
of the purposes authorized by or under this Act.

28. It shall be the duty of the Secretary of the
University—

(a) to keep the accounts of the University in such
form as the Dayaka Mandalaya shall, after
consultation with the General Treasury,
from time to time direct;

(b) to receive all moneys paid to the University
Fund and to credit such moneys to the proper
heads of account; and

(c) to make all authorized payments:

Provided that income derived from grants made for
specific purposes, or from endowments for specific
objects, shall be separately accounted for in the
accounts of the University, and that no payments shall
be made from such income for the general purposes of
the University or for any purposes or objects other
than those for which such grants or endowments were
respectively made.

29. (1) The accounts of the University shall be
annually audited by the Auditor-General.

(2) For the purpose of assisting him in the audit
of such accounts, the Auditor-General may employ the
services of any qualified auditor or auditors who shall
act under his direction and control.

2——H 8011 (10/67)

Grants in aid
of the Univer-
sity.

Secretary of the
University to
keep accounts.

Audit of
accounts.


16 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(3) The Auditor-General and any person assisting
him in the audit of the accounts of the University
shall have access to all such books, deeds, contracts,
accounts, vouchers and other documents of the Univer-
sity as the Auditor-General may consider necessary
for the purposes of the audit, and shall be furnished
by the Secretary of the University or any other officer
of the University with such information within his
knowledge as may be required for such purposes.

(4) For the purpose of meeting the expenses
incurred by him in the audit of the accounts of the
University, the Auditor-General shall be paid from
the University Fund such remuneration as_ the
Minister may determine with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance. Any remuneration received by
the Auditor-General under this sub-section shall,
after deducting any sums paid by him to any qualified
auditor or auditors employed by him for the purposes

* of such audit, be credited to the Consolidated Fund
of Ceylon.

(5) For the purposes of this section, the expression
** qualified auditor ’? means—

(a) an individual who, being a member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants of
Ceylon, possesses a certificate to practise as
an Accountant issued by the Council of that
Institute; or

(b) a firm of Chartered Accountants each of the
partners of which, being a member of the
Institute, possesses a certificate to practise
as an Accountant issued by the Council of
that Institute.

Anditor- 30. (1) The Auditor-General shall examine the
cet ga accounts of the University and furnish a report—

(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all
the information and explanations required by
him;

(5) stating whether the accounts referred to in the
report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and fair view of the affairs of the
University; and

(c) drawing attention to any item in the accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to the

- Senate and the House of Representatives.

(2) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Dayaka Mandalaya.


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 17
Act, No. 16 of 1968

(3) On receipt of the Auditor-General’s report by
the Dayaka Mandalaya, the Mandalaya shall consider
the report and shall transmit a copy thereof to the
Minister, together with a copy of the statement of
accounts to which the report relates and the observa-
tions of the Mandalaya on the report; and the
Mandalaya shall also cause such report and statement
to be published in the Gazette.

(4) The Minister shall lay copies of the report and
statement referred ‘to in sub-section (3) before the
Senate and the House of Representatives.

34. (1) The annual financial estimates prepared
by the Dayaka Mandalaya shall, before the first day
of March in each year, be sent to the Permanent
Secretary to the Ministry.

(2) In the case of necessity and in order to meet
unforeseen expenditure, it shall at any time be lawful
for the Dayaka Mandalaya to prepare supplementary
estimates of expenditure.

PART VIII
MISCELLANEOUS

32. No person shall reside within the University
precincts unless he—

(2) is a Bhikkhu, or
(b) is a servant in a Hall of Residence of the
University.

33. (1) Where the presence of any person in the
University precincts is undesirable, the Secretary
of the University after giving such person an oppor-
tunity of being heard, may, with the consent of the
Board of Education and Administration, by writing
under the hand of the Secretary served on such person,
prohibit such person from entering or remaining
within the University precincts or within such part
thereof as may be specified in such writing. Such
pee a bition shall be and remain in force until revoked

y the Secretary with the consent of the Board of
Education and Administration.

(2) A certificate under the hand of the Secretary
of the University to the effect that any person named
In the certificate has been prohibited, in accordance
with the provisions of sub-section (1), from entering
or remaining within the University precincts or any

Financial
estimates.

Restriction on °
residence with-
in University ..
precincts.

Prohibition of
undesirable
persons from
entering
precincts.


Removal of

Dharmapithadhi.

i from office
cand dissolution
of an
Authority.

18 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

specified part thereof, shall be received and accepted
by a court of law as evidence of the facts stated in
such certificate until the contrary is proved.

(3) A document purporting to be a certificate issued
by the Secretary of the University and to be signed
by him shall be received in evidence, and shall, until
the contrary is proved, be deemed to be a certificate
issued by the Secretary under sub-section (2).

(4) Any person who is prohibited under the provi-
sions of sub-section (1) from entering or remaining
within the University precincts or part thereof and
who, without reasonable cause, enters or remains
within such precincts or part thereof in contravention
of such prohibition shall be guilty of an offence and
shall, on conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine of one hundred rupees
in respect of each day on which he has entered or
during which he has remained within such precincts
or part thereof.

(5) An offence under sub-section (4) shall be
cognizable and bailable within the meaning of those
terms as defined in the Criminal Procedure Code.

84. (1) If the Minister is of the opinion that there
is sufficient proof that the Dharmapithadhipati or any
Authority, other than the Anusasaka Mandalaya,
has acted in a manner detrimental to the interests of
the University, the Minister may, by Order in
writing—

(2) remove the Dharmapithadhipati from office, or

(6) dissolve such Authority,

as the case may be.

(2) Where the Minister under sub-section (1)
removes the Dharmapithadhipati from office, he may
by the same or subsequent Order appoint a fit and
proper person to exercise and perform the powers,
duties and functions of the Dharmapithadhipati; and
the Minister may from time to time by Order in
writing remove or replace the person so appointed.

(3) The person appointed under sub-section (2) may,
until a new Dharmapithadhipati is duly appointed,
exercise and perform all the powers, duties and
functions of the Dharmapithadhipati.

(4) Where the Minister under sub-section (1)
dissolves any Authority, he may by the same or sub-
sequent Order appoint a fit and proper person or

|
I
4

|

|


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 19
Act, No. 16 of 1968

two or more such persons to exercise and perform the
powers, duties and functions of that Authority; and
the Minister may from time to time by Order in
writing remove or replace any person so appointed.

(5) Any person or persons appointed under sub-
section (4) to exercise and perform the powers, duties
and functions of an Authority dissolved under sub-
section (1) may, until a new Authority is duly cons-
tituted, exercise and perform all the powers, duties
and functions of the Authority which was dissolved.
Such new Authority shall not be constituted until a
direction in that behalf is given by the Minister.

35. The degrees, diplomas and other distinctions
which the University may grant to, or confer upon,
persons who have pursued approved courses of study
in the University shall be such degrees, diplomas or
other distinctions as may be determined by Statute.

36. (1) Where a Bhikkhu who has received any
degree, diploma or other distinction of the Universit
ceases to be a Bhikkhu, he shall be deprived of suc
degree, diploma or other distinction and of all the
privileges of the University which he enjoys.

(2) Where a person who has received a degree,
diploma or other distinction of the University is con-
victed of any crime or offence involving moral
turpitude or is guilty of scandalous conduct, it shall
be lawful for the Dharmapithadhipati, on the recom-
mendation made by the Board of Education and
Administration after a decision to make such recom-
mendation is taken by not.less than two-thirds of the
members of that Board entitled under this Act to make
such decision, to deprive such person of any degree,
diploma or other distinction granted to, or conferred
upon, such person and of all the privileges of the
University which he enjoys.

37. Where a Bhikkhu who is employed as a teacher
or an officer of the University retires after a period of
not less than ten years’ service in the employ of the
University, the Dayaka Mandalaya may make such
provision for the future as may be necessary to enable

im to maintain a standard of life befitting his
position; and any expenses incurred in that behalf by
the Dayaka Mandalaya shall be charged to the
University Fund. ! 3

Degrees,
diplomas and
other distinc.
tions.

Deprivation of
degree, &c.,
in certain cir-
cumstances.

Special
provisions for
Bhikkhus after
retirement,


Alteration of
seal,

Interpretation.

20 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

38. The seal of the University may be altered in
such manner as may be determined by the Board of
Education and Administration.

PART IX
INTERPRETATION

89. In this Act unless the context otherwise
requires—
** Anusasaka Mandalaya’’ means the Anusasaka
Mandalaya constituted in accordance with
the provisions of section 10;

‘* Authorities ’’ means the Authorities of the
University mentioned in section 9;

‘* Bhikkhu ’? means a Bhikkhu, whether Upasam-
pada or Samanera, who has been registered
as such according to section 41 of the
Buddhist Temporalities Ordinance (Chapter
318);

‘* Board of Education and Administration ’’ means
the Board of Education and Administration
constituted in accordance with the provisions
of section 12;

‘* Dayaka Mandalaya’’ means the Dayaka Man-
dalaya constituted in accordance with the
provisions of section 15;

‘‘ Minister ’? means the Minister who is for the
time being charged with the administration
of the subject of education, and ‘‘ Ministry *
shall be construed accordingly;

* officer ’? means the Secretary of the University or
the holder of any post or office in the Univer-
sity but does not include a teacher or @
servant ;

‘Rule’? means any Rule made by an Authority
in accordance with the provisions of this
Act;

‘ Statute ’? means any Statute made by the Board
of Education and Administration in accord-
ance with the provisions of this Act;

‘¢ teacher ’’ includes a Professor, a Lecturer and
any other person imparting full-time
instruction in the University;

‘© University ’? means the University established
under section 2; |

‘‘ University precincts ’? means the site on whic
the University has its seat.

?


Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya 21
Act, No. 16 of 1968

PART X

TRANSITORY PROVISIONS

40. (1) As soon as may be after this Act comes
into operation—

(a2) the Anusasaka Mandalaya shall come into
existence, and

(b) the Minister shall appoint the Dharmapitha-
dhipati and the Secretary of the University.

(2) The Dharmapithadhipati shall, as soon as may
be after his appointment, constitute the Departments
of Study. The first appointments of the teachers who
will be the Heads of the different Departments of
Study and the first appointment of the Librarian shall
be made by the Dharmapithadhipati with the approval
of the Minister.

(3) The Dharmapithadhipati shall, as soon as may
be after the appointment of the Heads of Depart-
ments, constitute the Board of Education and Admi-
nistration and the Dayaka Mandalaya.

(4) The financial estimates of the University for the
period commencing on the date on which this Act comes
into operation and ending on the last day of the
Government financial year in which such date falls
shall be prepared by the Secretary of the University
and such financial estimates shall be deemed to be the
financial estimates of the University for the purposes
of this Act.

(5) All expenses incurred by the University during
the period referred to in sub-section (4) shall be met
out of such moneys as may be provided for the purpose
‘by Parliament.

44, In connection with the preliminary arrange-
Mentg necessary for the establishment of the Univer-
sity, the Minister, by Order published in the Gazette,
may issue all such directions as he may deem necessary

Transitional
arrangements.

Adjustment of
questions not
provided for.


Operation of
sections 40
and 41,

22 Buddha Sravaka Dharmapithaya
Act, No. 16 of 1968

with a view to providing for any special or unforeseen
circumstances, or to determining or adjusting any
question or matter for the determination or adjust-
ment of which no provision or effective provision is
made by this Act.

42. The provisions of sections 40 and 41 shall have
effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any
other provision of this Act.
