PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 9.25Postage : Rs. 5.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 03, 2005

[Certified on 31st May, 2005]

Printed on the Order of Government

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(SPECIAL PROVISIONS)ACT, No. 15 OF 2005

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 20051

Short title.

2 PL 000190 5,650 (03/2005)

[Certfied on 31st May, 2005]

L. D. O. 56/2004.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE EXTENSION OF THE PERIOD OF DETENTION OF

PERSONS ARRESTED WITHOUT A WARRANT IN ORDER TO FACILITATE THE

CONDUCT OF INVESTIGATIONS; FOR DISPENSING WITH THE CONDUCT OF

THE NON-SUMMARY INQUIRY IN CERTAIN CASES; TO PROVIDE FOR THE

TAKING OF DEPOSITIONS OF WITNESSES FOR THE PROSECUTION; AND TO

MAKE PROVISION FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL

THERETO

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1. This Act may be cited as the Code of Criminal Procedure(Special Provisions) Act, No. 15 of 2005.

2.Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code ofCriminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 other than theprovisions of section 43(A) of that Act, any peace officer shallnot detain in custody or otherwise confine a person arrestedwithout a warrant for a longer period than under all thecircumstances of the case is reasonable, and such period shallnot exceed twenty - four hours exclusive of the time necessaryfor the journey from the place of arrest to the Magistrate :

Provided that where the arrest is in relation to an offenceas is specified in the Schedule to this Act, such period ofdetention in police custody may, on production before himof the person arrested and on a certificate filed by a policeofficer not below the rank of the Assistant Superintendent ofPolice submitted prior to the expiration of the said period oftwenty - four hours, to the effect that it is necessary to detainsuch person for the purpose of further investigations, beextended upon an order made in that behalf by the Magistratefor a further period not exceeding twenty - four hours, sohowever that the aggregate period of detention shall notexceed forty-eight hours.

Period ofdetention ofperson arrested notto be more thantwenty - fourhours or forty-eight hours incertain cases.

2Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 2005

3.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No 15 of 1979, where there areaggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commission of anoffence, specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, it shall be lawful for the Attorney-Generalto forward indictment directly to the High Court.

(2) The Attorney-General may in forwarding indictmentdirectly in terms of subsection (1) proceed to do so ex meromotu or upon receipt of the relevant record from theMagistrate.

4.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Codeof Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 where there areaggravating circumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commission of anoffence specified in the Second Schedule to the JudicatureAct, No. 2 of 1978, the Magistrate shall not hold a preliminaryinquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, and shall forthwith forwardthe record of the proceedings to the Attorney-General andthereafter abide by the instructions of the Attorney-General.

(2) Upon receipt of the record of the proceedings by theMagistrate in terms of subsection (1), the Attorney- Generalshall

(a)where he is of the opinion that there are aggravatingcircumstances or circumstances that give rise topublic disquiet in connection with the commissionof the aforesaid offence, forward indictment directlyto the High Court;

(b)where he is of the opinion that the circumstances donot warrant the forwarding of direct indictment tothe High Court, return the record to the Magistratewithin thirty days of the receipt of the same anddirect that a preliminary inquiry be held in terms ofChapter XV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,No. 15 of 1979.

Direct indictmentin case of offencecommitted inaggravatingcircumstances.

Magistrate toforward record toAttorney-General.

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 20053

(3) If the Magistrate proceeds to hold a preliminaryinquiry in terms of Chapter XV of the aforesaid Code, theAttorney-General shall, call for the record of the proceedings,for the purpose of considering forwarding indictment directlyto the High Court. In such an event the Magistrate shallforthwith suspend proceedings and forward the record of theproceedings to the Attorney-General and shall thereafter abideby the instructions of the Attorney-General.

5.Any proceedings in terms of the provisions of this Actshall be concluded within a period of ninety days from thedate of the commencement of proceedings under ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

6.(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in ChapterXV of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979,in the course of holding of an inquiry under the aforesaidChapter, the following provisions shall apply to the takingof statements of persons who know the facts and circumstancesof the case.

(2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (11) theMagistrate shall read out, or cause to be read out to everywitness produced against the accused, in the presence andhearing of the accused, the statement made by the witness inthe course of the investigation conducted in terms of ChapterXI of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979and shall ask the witness whether the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police.

(3) (a) If the witness states, in response to an inquiry madeof him under subsection (1), that the statement is an accuraterecord of what he had stated to the police, the Magistrateshall record that fact. The Magistrate shall permit the witness,if the witness so desires, to make such additions or alterationsto his original statement. Every such addition or alterationshall be recorded.

Proceedings to beterminated withinninety days.

Depositions.

4Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 2005

(b) The Maigstrate shall not permit any cross examinationof the witness by the accused or his pleader, but the Magistratemay put to the witness, any clarification required by theaccused or his pleader of any matter arising from the statementmade by the witness in the course of the investigation, or anyadditions or alterations to his original statement if any, andmay put to the witness any clarification which the Magistratehimself may require of any such matter. Every clarificationso made shall be recorded :

Provided that having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(4)The Magistrate shall thereafter read out or cause tobe read out to the witness, the statement made by the witnessto Court affirming the accuracy of the statement made byhim in the course of the investigation and the clarifications ifany made by him under subsection (2), and additions oralterations to his original statement if any, made by himunder subsection (3), and shall require the witness to swear oraffirm to the truth of the matters recorded.

(5) (a) If on the other hand, the witness states in responseto an inquiry made of him under subsection (1), that thestatement is not, in its entirety or in part, an accurate recordof what he had stated to the police, the Magistrate shall permitthe witness to give an account of the circumstances relatingto the offence, or as the case may be, to make such additionsor alterations to his original statement as the witness maywish to make.

(b) The Magistrate shall not permit any cross-examinationof the witness by the accused or his pleader but the Magistratemay put to the witness, any clarification required by theaccused or his pleader of any matter arising from the accountgiven, or additions or alterations made, by the witness ormay put to the witness any clarification that the Magistratehimself may require of any such matter :

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 20055

Provided that having considered the nature of the materialcontained in the statement of a witness made to the police,the prosecution may tender the witness for cross examinationby the accused or his pleader.

(c) The Magistrate shall record the account given, or theadditions or alterations made by the witness under paragraph(a) and any clarifications made by the witness under paragraph(b), and read out or cause to be read out the same to thewitness and shall require the witness to swear or affirm to thetruth of the matters so recorded.

(6) Before a witness is produced against the accused theMagistrate shall permit the accused or his pleader to perusein open court, the statement made by that witness to thepolice in the course of the investigation.

(7) The Magistrate shall sign, and shall cause the witnessto sign, a certified copy of the statement made by the witnessto the police in the course of the investigation and shallcause the same to be filed of record. The copy so filed shallfor all purposes form part of the record of the inquiry.

(8) The Magistrate shall not summon an expert witness ora police officer but shall cause the report of such expertwitness or the affidavit of such police officer as the case maybe to be produced and filed of record :

Provided that the Magistrate may, for reasons to be recordedand in the case of an expert witness, with the prior sanction ofthe Attorney-General, summon an expert witness or policeofficer to be present in Court for examination.

(9) Where an expert witness or a police officer appears incourt in response to summons issued on him under subsection(8), the Magistrate shall not permit any cross examination ofsuch expert witness or police officer by the accused or hispleader but may put to such expert witness or police officer,any clarifications that the accused or his pleader may require,of any matter arising from the report of the expert witness orthe affidavit of the police officer, as the case may be, or from

6Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 2005

the examination of such expert witness or police officer, asthe case may be, and the Magistrate may himself put to thewitness any clarification that he may require of any suchmatter. Every clarification so made shall be recorded.

(10) A statement made by an expert witness or policeofficer and the deposition made by a witness tendered forcross examination under this section, shall be deemed to beadmissible in evidence in terms of section 33 of the EvidenceOrdinance (Chapter 14).

(11) (a) Where the accused-

(i)is absconding or has left the island ; or

(ii)is unable to attend or remain in court by reason ofillness and has consented either to thecommencement or continuance of the inquiry in hisabsence, such inquiry may commence or continuewithout any prejudice to him ; or

(iii)by reason of his conduct in court is obstructing orimpeding the progress of the inquiry,

the Magistrate may, if satisfied of these facts, commence andproceed or continue with the inquiry in the absence of theaccused.

(b) An Attorney- at- Law may appear for such absentaccused.

(c) The inquiry shall proceed as far as is practicable inaccordance with the provisions of this Act except that theprovisions of section 416 of the Code of Criminal ProcedureAct, No. 15 of 1979 shall not apply to the depositions recordedwhere there is a trial on indictment in the High Court, whetherthe accused is present in the High Court or not.

(12) The statement made by a witness to the police in thecourse of the investigation together with, as the case may be,his statement and clarifications, if any, recorded undersubsection (3) or the additions, alterations and clarifications

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 20057

made and recorded under subsection (4) or the accountgiven and recorded under subsection (5), shall be regardedfor the purposes of this Act, as the deposition of thatwitness.

(13) Every witness produced against the accused at theinquiry shall be entitled to be represented by an Attorney-atLaw.

(14) If after the conclusion of the procedure set out above,the Magistrate does not consider that the case should bedealt with in accordance with the provisions of section 153of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, theMagistrate shall read the charge to the accused and explainthe nature thereof in ordinary language and inform him thathe has a right to call witnesses and, if he so desires to giveevidence on his own behalf.

(15) The provisions of Chapter XV of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall mutatis mutandis applyto any preliminary inquiry held under the provisions of thisAct.

7.The provisions of this Act shall be in operation fora period of two years from the date of its coming intooperation.

8.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

Duration of theAct.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

8Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 2005

SCHEDULE(Section 2)

Abetment of an offence set out in theSchedule, if the act abetted iscommittedSection 102 - Penal Code

Conspiracy for the abetment orcommission of any offence set out inthe Schedule.Section 113B - Penal Code

MurderSection 296 - Penal Code

Culpable Homicide not amounting tomurderSection 297 - Penal Code

Attempt to commit murderSection 300 - Penal Code

Kindapping or abduction to commitmurderSection 355 - Penal Code

Kidnapping or abduction with intentto wrongfully confine a personSection 356 - Penal Code

Kidnapping or abduction with intentto wrongfully subject person to grievoushurtSection 358 - Penal Code

Concealing or keeping in confinementa kidnapped personSection 359 - Penal Code

RapeSection 364 - Penal Code

Theft, preparation having being madeto cause death &c,.Section 371 - Penal Code

Robbery with attempt to cause death orgrievous hurtSection 383 - Penal Code

Attempt to commit robbery when armedwith deadly weaponsSection 384 - Penal Code

Attempt to commit any of the aboveoffencesSection 490 - Penal Code

An offence committed with the use ofexplosives, an offensive weapon ora gun.

Explosive as defined in theExplosives Act (Chapter183); offensive weapon asdefined in the OffensiveWeapons Act, No. 18 of 1966and a Gun as defined in theFirearms Ordinance (Chapter182).

Code of Criminal Procedure (Special Provisions)Act, No. 15 of 20059

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.