PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

CUSTOMS (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No.2 OF 2003

(Certified on 6th January, 2003}

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part IT of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of January 10, 2003

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRILANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 13.50 Postage : Rs. 6.75


Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003

[Certified on 6th January. 2003]

L. D._O. 10/2002
AN ACT TO AMEND THE CUSTOMS ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Customs (Amendment)
Act, No. 2. of 2003.

2. Section 51 of the Customs Ordinance (hereinafter
referred to as the “principal enactment’) is hereby amended
by the substitution for the words “by declaration by the
importer or his agent.” of the words “by a declaration made
by the importer or his agent on a form of such size and colour
as may be specified by the Director-General by notification
published in the Gazette,”.

3. The following new sections are hereby inserted
immediately after section SI of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as sections 51a, 518 and Sic of that
enactment -—

“When officer Sta. (1) (a) Whenever an officer of customs

indoubt he has reason to doubt the truth or accuracy of any

may call for . . . : .

faaier particulars contained in a bill of entry or a

information. — declaration made under section 51 or the
documents presented te him in support of a bill
of entry under section 47, the officer of customs
may require the importer or his agent or any

other party connected with the importation of

goods, to furnish such other information,
inciuding documentary or other evidence in
proof of the fact that the declared customs valuc
represents the total amount actually paid or ts
payable for the imported goods as adjusted in
accordance with Article 8 of Schedule FE.

Short title.

Amendnient of
section St of
Chapter 235,

Insertion of new
section SLa, S1p
and Sic inthe
principal
enactment.


to

Customs (Amendment) Act. No. 2 of 2003

(b) > After the receipt of further information
or in the absence of any response. if the officer
of customs sill has reasonable doubt as to the
truth or accuracy of the declared customs vatue.
it shall be deemed that the customs value of the
imported goods in question cannot be
determined under the provisions of Article | of
Schedule E and the importer. if so requests. shall
be informed by the olficer in writing of the
grounds for such doubt and be afforded an
opportunity to be heard.

(c) The officer of customs may thereatter
proceed to determine the customs value in
accordance with the other provisions of
Schedule E and amend the value as
appropriate.

(2) fan officer of customs is satisfied as a
result of an examination or investigation, or an
audit carried out under section 128A, atany time
prior to or after the clearance of the goods that
the value declared by the importer or his agent
under an Article of Schedule E under which the
value was initially accepted, is not appropriate
the officer of customs may amend the value in
accordance with the appropriate Article of
Schedule E.

(3) For the purpose of this Ordinance. the
customs value shall be the amended value under
subsection (1) or (2).

(4) Upona written request. an explaaation
shall be given in writing to the importer. on how
the customs value of the importer’s goods was
determined under subsection (2).


Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003 3

Importer to
keep records
for three
years,

(5) Subsection (2) shall apply to goods
whether or not such goods have been released
from the control of the customs or any duty
assessed on them has been paid.

(6) Animporter who is dissatisfied with a
decision of the officer, under this section may.
within ten working days alter the date on which
notice of the decision is given, appeal to the
Director-General against that decision. The right
of appeal shall be available to an importer
whether or not the imported goods have been
released to him and whether or not any part of
the custom duty has been paid. The decision of
the Director-General on the appeal and the
reasons for such a decision shall be in writing.

(7) Where the importer desires to clear the
goods pending the determination of his appeal
the Director-General may. except in case where
fraud is suspected. allow the clearance of the
goods upon furnishing security for the payment
of the customs duties and other levies lor which
the goods may be liabts.

Sin. (1) Every Importer, agent or others
concerned in the importation, movement and
storage of imported goods shall keep or cause
to be kept in Sri Lanka such records [ora period
of three years from the date of importation as
may be prescribed.

(2) Every such person shall whenever
required by an officer of customs —

(a) make the records available to such
officer :

(b) provide copies of the records as
required : and


Amendment of
section $2 of the
principal
enachnent.

Insertion of new
section 52a in the
principal
enacument,

Amendment of
section LOL of the
principal
enactment.

4 Customs (Amendment) Act. No, 2 of 20038

(c) answer any questions relating to matters
arising under the Ordinance.

Confidentiality Stic. Allinformation which are confidential
to be suictls

a: in nature or are provided in contidenee for the
maintained

purpose of customs valuation shall be so treated
by the officer of customs and shall not be
disclosed without the written permission of tie
persons or government providing such
information, except to the extent that it may be
required to be disclosed in the course of judicial
proceedings. *.

4. Section 52 of the principal enactment ts hereby
amended by the substituGion for the words “is not in
accordance with Schedule E™ of the words “according to
section 51 is a false declaration”.

§.) The following new section is. hereby inserted
immediately after section 52 and shall have effect as section
52a of the principal enactment :—

“Penalty for $2a. Every person who in contravention of
failing to the provisions of the Ordinance. fails to keep
keep, fecords. whi ASCE

eo ss _ records which are required to be kept unde:
destroying or . :
altering section 518 or destroys, alters or conceals any
records &e. book register. record or other document required

to be kept under this Ordinanee or sends or
attempts to send out of Sri Lanka any such book,
register, record or document commits an offence
and shall be Hable to a penalty not exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees.”.

6. Section 101 of the principal enactment is hereby

amended in subsection (1) thereof —

(a) by the substitution in paragraph (f). for the words
“duties sand”, of the words. “duties” :


Customs (Amendment) Act, No, 2 of 2003 5

(bo) by the substitution in paragraph (¢). for the words
“defaced”. of the words “defaced : and” + and

(c) by the addition, at the end of the paragraph (g) of
that subsection, of the following :—

“(hy for assessment of value for the customs
purposes under section 51."

7. The following new section is hereby inserted
immediately after section 128 of the principal enactment and
shall have effect as section 128A of the principal
enactment :—

“Power to 128a. (1) The Director-General or any
emer forthe officer of customs authorized in that behalf in
purpose of te .

aulitar writing by the Director-General may —
examination

of records. (a) atall reasonable hours of the day or

night enter any building or place where
records are kept in accordance with
section S518 and audit or examine such
records on any matter pertaining to
customs either in relation to specific
transactions or to the adequacy and
integrity of the manual or electronic
systems by which such records are
created and stored ;

(b) open and examine any receptacle
where any book of account, register,
record or any other document may be
found for the purposes of the preceding
provisions of this Ordinance :

(c) examine and take copies of, or make
extracts from or take possession of any
book of account, register, record or
other document found in such place or
building :

Insertion of new
section £28. in
the principal
emaciment.


6

Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003

(d) operate any computer: found in any
building and make copies or take
printouts of the whole or part of any
entries recorded or stored therein.

(2) Where an officer authorized by the
Director-General under subsection (1) of this
section takes into his possession any book of
account, register, record or other documents
from any person, such officer shall issue to that
person a memorandum specifying the book.
register, record or document he has taken mto
his possession.

(3) Any book of account, register. record
or other document taken into his possession
under subsection (1) by any officer may be
rewined in the possession of such officer for the
examination of such book. register, record or
document or for the institution of legal
proceedings against the person to whom such
book. register, record or other document
belongs.

(4) The Director-General or any authorized
officer of customs may request any person in
charge or occupation of any building or place
to assist the Director-General or such officer to
enter and search that building or place and tf
such person when so requested fails to assist
the Director-General or such officer he shall be
guilty of an office.

(5) Any person who obstructs the Director-
General or an officer of customs in exercising
any of his powers under this section shall be
guilty of an offence.

(6) A person who ts guilty of an offence under
subsection (4) or (5) shall be Hable to a penalty
not exceeding one hundred thousand rupees.”.


Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003 7

8. Section 167 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended by the insertion immediately alter the definition
“customs house” of the following :—

“document” includes any information contained in an
electronic record. printed on a paper, stored, recorded
or copied on optical or magnetic media and produced
by whatever means :”

9. Inthe event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act. the Sinhala text shall prevail.

10. Schedule E to the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following Schedule is substituted
therefor :—

Provided however, notwithstanding the repeal of
the Schedule all actions and proceedings taken under
the repealed Schedule and pending on the day
preceding the date on which the new Schedule came
into force

(a) shall be deemed to have been or to be. as the
case may be, duly taken under the repealed
Schedule : and

(b) inay be proceeded with or continucd under the
repealed Schedule as though that Schedule had
not been repealed.

Amendment of
section 167 of the
principal
enaconent

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Substitution of
Schedule E to the
principal
enacunent,


8 Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003

“SCHEDULE “E” [section Shs]
Customs VaLuation RULES
Article 1

1. The customs value of any imported goods shall be the transachion
value, that is. the price actually paid or payable for the goods when sold tor
export to Sri Lanka as adjusted in accordance with the provisions of
Article 8 :

Provided however-—

(a) that there are no restrictions as to the disposition or use of the
goods by the buyer other than restrictions that—

(i) are imposed or required by law or by the public authorities
in Sri Lanka «

(i) limit the geographical area in which the goods may be
resold + or

(i) do not substantially affect the value of the goods

(b) that the sale or price is not subject to some condition or
consideration for which a value cannot be determined with respect
to the goods being valued :

fe) thatno part of the proceeds of any subsequent resale. disposal a1
use of the goods by the buyer will accrue directly or indirectly to
the seller, unless ao appropriate adjustment can be made i:
accordance with the provisions of Article 8: and

(d) that the buyer and seller are not related, or where the buyer and
the seller ave related, that the transaction value is acceptable tor
customs purposes under the provisions of paragraph 2.

2 (a) In determining whether the (ansaction value is acceptable for the
purposes of paragraph 1. the fact that the buyer and the seller are related
within the meaning of Article 9 shall notin itself be ground for regarding the
transaction value as unacceptable. [In such case the cireumst ‘surrounding
the sale shall be examined and the transaction value shall be accepted provided
that the relationship did not influence the price. [in the light of inturamation
provided by the importer or otherwise. the Customs Administration has
grounds for considering that the relationship influenced the price. it shall
communicate its grounds to the importer and the importer shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to respond. Hf the amporter so requests. the
communication of the grounds shall be in writing,

Ve



Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003 .)

(b) Ina sale between related persons, the transaction value shall be
accepted and the goods valued in accordance with the provisions of paragraph
t whenever the importer demonstrates that such value closely approximates
to one of the following occurting at or about the same time :—

(i) the transaction value in sales to unrelated buyers of identical or
similar goods for export to Sri Lanka +

(i) the customs value of identical or similar goods as determined
under the provisions of Article 5:

(it) the customs value of identical or similar goods as determined
under the provisions of Article 6.

In applying the foregoing tests, due account shall be taken of demonstrated
differences in commercial levels. quantity levels, the elements enumerated
in Article 8 and costs incurred by the seller in sales in which the seller and
the buyer are not related that are not incurred by the seller in sales in which
the seller and the buyer are related.

(c) The tests set forth in paragraph 2 (b) are to be used at the initiative of
the importer and only for comparison purposes. Substitute values may not
be established under the provisions of paragraph 2 ()),

Article 2

1. (a) If the customs value of the imported goods cannot be determined
under the provisions of Article 1. the customs value shall be the transaction
value of identical goods sold for export to Sri Lanka and exported at or about
the same time as the goods being valued.

(>) In applying this Article. the transaction value of identical goods ina
sale atthe same commercial level and in substantially the same quantity as
the goods being valued shall be used to determing the customs value. Where
no such sale is found, the transaction value of identical goods sold ata different
commercial level and in different quantities or either of them, adjusted to
take account of differences attributable to commercial level and to quantity
or either of them, shall be used, provided that such adjustnents can be made
on the basis of demonstrated evidence which clearly establishes the
reasonableness and accuracy of the adjustment. whether the adjustment leads
to. an Increase or a decrease in the value.

2. Where the costs and charges referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 8 are
included in the transaction value, an adjustment shall be made to take account
of significant differences in such costs and charges between the imported
goods and the identical goods in question arising from differences in-distances
and modes of transport.

3. Win applying this Article, more than one transaction value of identical
goods 1s found, the lowest of such value shall be used in determining the
customs value of the imported goods.


10 Customs (Amendment) Act, No, 2 of 2003

Article 3

1. (a) the customs value of the imported goods cannot be determined
under the provisions of Articles | and 2. the customs value shall be the
transaction value of similar goods sold for export to Set Lankit and exported
at or about the same time as the goods being valued.

(b) In applying this Article, the transaction value of similar goods in at
sale at the same commercial level and in substantially the same quantity as
the goods being valued shall be used to determine the customs value. Where
no such sale is found, the transaction value of similar goods sold ata different
commercial level and in different quantities, or cither of them, adjusted to
take account of differences attributable to commercial level and to quantity
or either of them shall be used provided that such adjustments can be made
on the basis of demonstrated evidence which clearly establishes the
reasonableness and accuracy of the adjustment, whether the adjustment leads
to an increase or a decrease in the value.

2. Where the costs and charges referred to in paragraph 2 of Article 8 are
included in the transaction value, an adjustment shall be made to take account
of significant differences in such costs and charges between the imported
goods and the similar goods in question arising from differences in distances
and modes of transport.

3. If in applying this Article, more than one transaction value of simular
goods is found, the lowest of such values shall be used to determine the
customs value of the imported goods,

Article 4

Ifthe customs value of the imported goods cannot be determined under
the provisions of Articles 1,2 and 3, the customs value shall be determined
under the provisions of Article 5 or, when the customs value cannot be
determined under that Article, under the provisions of Article 6 except that,
at the request of the importer. the order of application of Articles 5 and 6
shall be reversed.

Article 5

1. (a) If the imported goods or identical or similar imported goods are
sold in Sri Lanka in the condition as imported. the customs value of the
imported goods under the provisions of this Article shall be based on the unit
price at which the imported goods or identical or similar imponed goods ie
so sold in the greatest aggregate quantity, ator about the time of the
importation of the goods being valued. to persons who are not related to the
persons from whom they buy such goods, subject to deductions for the
following :-—

(i) either the commission usually paid or agreed to be paid or the
additions usualy made for profit and general expenses im
connection with sales in Sri Lanka of imported goods of the same
class or kind :


Customs (Amendment) Act. No. 2 of 2003 1

Gi) the usual costs or transport and insurance and associated costs
incurred within Sri Lanka :

Git) where appropriate. the costs and charges referred to in paragraph
2 of Article 8 : and

Gv) the customs duties and other national taxes payable in Sri Lanka
by reason of the importation or sale of the goods.

(b) UW neither the imported goods nor identical nor similar goods are sold
ator about the time of importation of the goods being valued. the customs
value shall subject otherwise to the provisions of paragraph | (a). be based
on the unit price at which the imported goods or identical or similar imported
goods are sold in Sri Lanka in the condition as imported at the earliest date
alter the importation of the goods being valued but before the expiration of
90 days aller such importation.

2. (f neither the imported goods nor identical nor similar goods are sold
in Sri Lanka in the condition as imported. then if the importer so requests,
the customs value shall be based on the unit price at which the imported
goods afler further processing are sold in the greatest aggregate quantity to
persons in Sti Lanka who are not related to the persons from whom they buy
such goods, due allowance being made for the value added by such processing
and the deductions provided for in paragraph | (a).

Arncle 6

I. The customs value of imported goods under the provisions of this
Article shall be based on a computed value. Computed value shall consist of
the sum of—

(a) the cost of value of materials and fabrication or other processing
employed in producing the imported goods +

(b) an amount for profit and general expenses equal to that usually
reflected in sales of goods of the same class or kind as the goods
being valued which are made by producer in the country of
exportation for export to Sri Lanka +

te) the cost or value of all other expenses incurred as set out in
paragraph 2 of Article 8.

2. The Director General of Customs may not require or compel any person
not resident in Sri Lanka to produce for examination, or to allow access to
any account or other record for the purposes of determining a computed

value. However, information supplied by the producer of the goods for the
purposes of determining the customs value under the provisions of this Article
may be verified in another country by the Director General of customs with
the agreement of the producer and provided sufficient advance notice is given
lo the Government of the country in question and the latter does not object to
the investigation.



12 Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 20038

Article 7

1.1 the customs vatue ofthe imported goods cannot be determined ander
the provisions of Anicle | to 6 both inclusive. the customs value shill be
determined using reasonable means consistent with the principles and geacral
provisions of the agreement on implementation of Article vii of the General
Agreement on “Tarilts and Trade 1994 and on the basis of data available in
Sri Lanka.

2. No customs value shall be determined under the provisions af this
Antcle on the basis of —

(a) the selling price in Sir Lanka of goods produced in Sri Lanka

(hb) asystems which provides for the acceptince for customs purposes
of the higher of two alternative values :

(ce) the price of goods on the domestic market of the country of
exportation +

(d) the cost of production other than computed values which have
been determined for identical or similar goods in accordance with
the provisions of Article 6 :

(ey the price of the goods forexport toa country other than Srt Lanka :

() minimum customs value + or

(2) arbitrary or fietitious values.

3. If the importer so requests, the importer shall be informed in writs
of the customs value determined under the provisions of this Article and the
method used to determing such value.

Article S

1. In determining the customs value under the provisions of Article 1.
there shall be added to the price actually paid or payable for the mmporicd
goods—

(a) the following. to the extent that they are incurred by the buyer
but are not included in the price actually paid or payable for the
goods :—

{i) commissions and brokerage. except buying commissions :

(i) the cost of containers which are ireated as bemg one tor
Customs purposes with the goods im question :

di) the cost of packing whether for labour or miaterius.


Customs (Amendment) Act. Na, 2 of 2003 13

(h) the value. apportioned as appropriate. of the following goods and
services where supplied directly or indirectly by the buyer tree
of charge or at reduced cost for use in connection with the
production and sale for export of the imported goods. to the extent
that such valug has not been included in the price actually paid or
payable :—

(i) materials, components, paris and similar items
incorporated in the iMported goods :

Gi} tools, dies, moulds and similar tems used in the production
of the imported goods +

Gi) materials consumed in the production of the imported

yoods :

(i) engineering, development. artwork. design work and plans
and sketches undertaken elsewhere than in Sri Lanka and
Necessary for the production of the unported goods.

(©) royalties and Hicence fees related to the goods being valued that
the buyer must pay, cither directly or indirectly, as a condition of
sale of the goods being valued to the extent that such royalties
and Ives are not included in the price actually paid or payable :

(the value of any part of the proceeds of any subsequent resi
disposal or use of the imported goods that accrues directly or

[s
indirectly to the seller
te) the following costs :-~

(i) The cost of transport of the imported goods to the port of
Sri Lanka :

Gi) Loading. unloading and handling charges associated with
the ansport of the imported goods to the port of Sri Lanka:
and

diy The cost of insurance,

2. Additions to the price actually paid or payable shall be made under
ths Article only on the basis of objective and quantifiable data.

3. No addition shall be made to the price actially p:tid Or payable in
determining the customs value except as provided in this Article.


14 Customs (Amendment) Act. No, 2 of 2008

Article 9
In this Schedule unless the content otherwise require —

“Customs value of imparted goods” means the value of goods for the
purposes of levying ad valorem duties of customs on inporicd
goods ;

“Sri Lanka” includes the customs territory of Sr Lanka :
“Produced” includes grown, manufactured and mined :

“Identical goods” means, goods which are the same in all respects.
including physical characteristics. quality and reputation » Minor
differences in appearance would not) preclude goods
otherwise conforming to the definition from being regarded as
identical ;

“Similar goods” means, goods which although not alike in all respects.
have like characteristics and ike component materials which enable
them to perform the same functions and to be commercialls
interchangeable. The quality of the goods, their reputation and the
existence of a trademark are among the factors to he considered in
determining whether goods are similar

“identical goods” and “similar goods” do not include. as the case mia
he, goods which incorporate or reflect engineermg developmicat.
artwork, design work and plans and sketches for which no adjustment
has been made under paragraph | (>) Gv) of Article 8 because such
elements were undertaken in Sri Lanka +

Goods shall not be regarded as “identical goods” or“ similar goods”
unless they were produced in the same country as the goods being
valued ;

Goods produced by a different person shall be taken into account
only when there are no identical goods or similar goods as the case
may be, produced by the same person as the goods being valued :

“goods of the same class or kind” means goods which fall within a group
or range of goods produced by a particular industry or industry sector,
and includes identical or similar goods :

Persons shall be deemed to be related only if—

(a) they are officers or directors of one another's businesses :

(hb) they are legally recognized partners in business :


(e)

(d)

(e)

V2)

(x)

(hy)

n

Customs (Amendment) Act, No. 2 of 2003 |

they are employer and employee :

any person directly or indirectly owns, controls or holds 5 percent
or more of the outstanding voting stock or shares or both of
them:

one of them directly or indirectly controls other:

both of them are directly or indirectly controlled by a
third person :

together they directly or indirectly control a third person ; or

they are members of the same family.

Persons who are associated in business with one another in that one is
the sole agent, sole distributor or sole concessionaire. however. described of
the other shall be deemed to be related for the purposes of this Schedule if
they fall within the above categories.

Article 10

Notwithstanding the provisions of this Schedule, the Minister may, with
the approval of the Cabinet of Ministers, in the interest of national economy
or for any other reason. by Order published in the Gazette fix, for such period
as may be specified in that Order, minimum values for any goods. and the
duties on those goods shall be charged on the basis of such minimum values.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1) 80(Forengn),
payable to the SurerintENDENT., GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU. No. 32, TRansworks Hovst
Lotus Roap, CotomBo 01 before 15th December cach year in respect of the year following.

