PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

J. R. JAYEWARDENE CENTRE
ACT, No. 77 OF 1988

[Certified on 13th December, 1938]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published asa Supplement to Part Il of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 23, 1988

| PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price : 60 ceuts. Postage : 75 cents.


“J. R. Jayewardene Centre Act, No. 77 of 1988
[Certified on 18th December, 1988]

L. D. —O 88/88 | “= ae
’ An AcT TO PROVIDE FOR TH ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ARCHIVAL
DEPOSITORY CALLED THE J. R. JAYEWARDENE CENTRE FOR
HISTORICAL RESEARCH, ARCHIVES AND LIBRARY; AND FOR
‘MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

‘BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Demoeratic Socialist _

Hepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1 This Act may be cited as the J. R. J ayewardene Centre
al No.. 77 of 1988. a byt

2, (1) There shall be established a ——— to be

called the “J, R. Jayewardene Centre for historical research,
archives and library” (hereinafter referred to as “the
Centre. ”). . re * ge igi
(2). Fhe Centre shall be housed | in premises bearing as-
sessment Nos. 191/1-5, 1/1 and 1/2, Dharmapala Mawatha
_ Situated at Turret Road (now called Dharmapala Mawatha)

in the Cinnamon Gardens’ Ward (No. 36) within the Muni- |

cipality and district of Colombo, purchased by the Democra-
tic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka from the People’s Repub-
lic of China, by. Deed No. 5761 dated February 8, 19388, and
attested by N. Sarmbandéan, Attorney-at-Law. and Notary
Public, Colombo. als. as a
. (3) All. moneys lying: with the Public Trustee, on the
day preceding the date of commencement of this Act, to be
used for the Centre shall stand transierred, with effect from

the date of commencement of this Act, to the Fund esta- .

blished by section 9 and may be used for the maintenance
.of the Centre and the enhancement of its amenities.

(4) The Centre shall, by the name assigned to it by sub-
section (1) be a body corporate, and shall have perpetual
succession and a‘common seal and nay sue and be sued i in

such name.

/

,

- the Centre shall be vested in a Board of Governors consti-
tuted as hereinafter provided.

(2) The ‘cost of administration and management of the
Centre shall be charged on the Consolidated Fund, through
provision to be made annually under the Votes of the De-
partment of National Archives.

(3) The Board of Governors of the Centre (heveiuatian
-referred to as “the Board”) shall consist of—

(a) the President of the Republic ;

3. (1). The administration, management and control of

Short title. —

Establish-
ment of

J. R. Jaye~
wardene
Centre.

Boare of
Governors
of the
‘Centre.


Powers of

the Board.

’ Ings.

2 J. R. Jayewardene Centre Act, No. 77 of 1988

(b) all living past Presidents ;
(c) the Prime Minister; .
‘(d) the Speaker ;
(e) the Leader of the Opposition ; °
(f) the Secretary to the President ;
(g) the Public Trustee ;
(hk) the Director, National Archives; and
(i) two other members appointed by the President, each of
whom shall subject to the provisions of subsections
(4) and (5), hold office for such periods as may be

specified in the letter of appointment issued to him
by the President.

(4) The President may in his absolute discretion revoke
the -appointment of any member appointed by him under
paragraph (i) of subsection (3). .

(5) Any member of the Board appointed under paragraph
{i) of subsection (3) may at any time resign from the Board
by a letter in that behalf addressed to the President.

(6) The Board may regulate the procedure in regard to
its meetings and the transaction of business at such meet-

(7) No act or proceeding of the Board : shall be deemed
to be invalid by reason only of the existence of a vacancy
among its members or any defect in the appointment of
a member thereof. .

(8) The President shall be the Chairman of the Board.

4. (1) The Board shail, in the name of the Centre, have
the power to—

(a) hold all public records and printed matter transferred
to the National Archives at the expiration of the
term of office of His Excellency J. R. Jayewardene,
the first elected Executive President of Sri Lanka
1978-88 ; under section 9a of the National Archives
Law, No. 48 of 1978 ;

(b) accept. for deposit, books, papers, files, photographs,
motion picture films and discs, audiotape and vedio~
tape recordings, family heirlooms and memorabilia
of the childhood and youth of the said J. R. Jaye-
wardene, items created and collected by him out of
personal interest, memorabilia relating to election
campaigns, official portraits and awards, medals and
gifts received by him ;


J. R. Jayewardene Centre Act, No. 77 of 1988 3

{c) accept: for deposit, material relating to the said J. R.
Jayewardene, donated by political party associates,
family and personal friends and others ;

(d) take all necessary steps to protect and preserve the
material referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and
(c) ; | |

{e) provide a reference service on such material ;

(f) present exhibitions of such material ;

(g) hold scholarly meetings ;

. (h) hold oral history programmes ;

{i) solicit and accept, donations, gifts and bequests of
money or other property, for the purpose of main-
taining, operating, Prsheciny or improving the Cen-
tre ;

(j) acquire, hold or manage —" whether movable
or immovable ;

(k) sell, mortgage, exchange or otherwise dispose of, or

. deal with any property, except those described in

paragraphs (a) and (b) and (c), whether movable

or immovable, ta which the Board may become en-
titled ; )

(1) enter into and perform, all such contracts and agree-
ments as may be necessary to the exercise and dis-
charge of its powers and functions ;

(m) perform all such acts or things as may be necessary
' to give eftect to the provisions of this Act.

(2) Nothing in saragratli (b) of section 94 of the National
Archives Law, No. 48 of 1973, shall apply in respect of the

material referred to in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of

subsection (1).

§& Any — belonging to the Centre may be invested
by the Board in such manner as the Board may determine.

6. The Board shall have the power—

(a) to appoint such officers and servants of the Centre
as may be necessary to carry out particular pro-
jects of the Centre ; and

(b) to determine the remuneration payble to the officers
and servants so appointed.

Investment

of moneys
of Centre,

Staff of
the
Centre,

i


4 J. R. Jayewardene Centre ane, No. 77 of 1988

Audit, (2) The Board shall: cause proper. accounts to be Kept
of ie income | and. expenditure of the Centre.

(2) Article 154.of the Constitution shal apply to the
audit of ee accounts of tne Centre.’ jk

Annual 8. ‘The Board shall, as soon as practicable after the thirty-
Tenor’. first day of December of each year, prepare a report.on the
| - administration of the affairs of the Centre during that year
together with a statement of the income and expenditure
of the Centre, and of the investment of the moneys belong-
ing to the Centre during that year. The Board shall trans-
_ mit such report and statement to the Minister who shall

cause them to be. placed before Parliament. ’

Fund of ° 9, (1) The Centre shall have its own Fund.

the
Centre. ~ y+ -(2) There shall be paid into such Fund—

(a) all sums appropriated ‘annually: for the pur-
poses of the Centre;
(b) all sums received by it, as donations;
--. (ce) all 1 sums received as income from investments
made by it ; and ;

(a) all sums transferred to the Fund by reason
- . of the operation of section 2 (3).

o é

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all sums requi-
red to defray any expenditure incurred by. the Centre in
the exercise of its powers andthe discharge of its func-
tions. a, Ge

Rules, 10. The Board may make such rules as it may consider
necessary in relation to any matter affecting or connected

with, or incidental to, the exercise, discharge and perfor- -

mance of its powers, functions and duties.
