PART, JAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF’

- SRI LANKA

JUDICATURE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 16 OF 1989

[Certified on 9th November, 1989]

Printed on the Orders of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of November 10, 1989

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVT. PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO

Price; Rs 1.50 | Postage : Rs. 1.15


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 ot 1989:
L.D.—O. 48/85, it ae
. [Certified on oth November: 1989]

AN ACT TO AMEND THE JUDICATURE Act, No. 2 or 1978

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist.

Republic of Sri Lanka as ae —

1. This Act may be cited as the J udicature ( , (Amendment)
Act, No. 16 of 1989 and shall come into operation on such

date as the Minister may appoint by Order published in the
Gazette,

2. Section 2 of the Judicature Act, No. 2 of 1978, (herein-
. after referred to as the “principal enactment’’) is hereby
amended by the repeal of paragraphs (b) to (e) of that
section, and the substitution therefor, of the OL OMEnS para-
graphs : —

““(b) the District Courts ;
| (c) the Small Claims Courts ;

@ the Magistrates’ Courts. ly tS BAO!

3. ‘Section 4 of the guinea ensetinent is hereby amend-
ed by the substitution, for the words ‘‘not more than
twenty Judges”, a of the words “not more than forty
duages: P86 at pa * : , YoRy bee

“4. Section 5. of. the principal snacencat is ‘hereby senend:
‘ed as follows:—

; (a) By the repeal of subdection ( 1) of ease section and the

- Substitution therefor, of the following subsection :~—

‘(1) There shall ‘be in stich judicial. district of

‘Sri Lanka a “ District Court ” and in every judicial

_... division there shall be a “Small Claims Court” and
ak Magistrates’ Court.” and-each such court shall be

eee holden by ‘arid before one person to be called the |

“District Judge”, “Judge of the Small Claims
Court” and ‘ Magistrate” respectively: ; and
@), in the: marginil note to that section, by the substitu-

; tion for the words “ District Courts, Family Courts,
Magistrates’ Courts and Primary Courts”, of the

words “ District. Courts, nemals Claims Courts and
Magistrates’. ‘Courts 23.4) Yo ena?

Short title,

Amendment
of section _
2 of Act

No. 2 of 1972.

Amendment.
of section

4 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment
of section
5 of the
principal
enactment,


.2 Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989

Insertion _ 5. The following new sections are hereby inserted im-

rari gestions mediately after'section 5, and shall have effect as sections

5c in the 5a, 5B and 5c of the principal enactment :— 7

principal “ HAN, .

Puacen re “Judicial... 5a. (1) For the purpose of sittings for
, ae S108 :

conducting trials and inquiries in every Court
of First Instance a working calendar day shall

be divided into two judicial days, each such
judicial day ‘beginning not later than 9.45 a.m.
and 1.15 p. m. respectively.

(2) Trials and inquiries shall be fixed for
every such judicial day. ,

@) Every sich judicial day shall, for the
purposes of subsections (1) and (2) consist
of a sittizg in open court of a minimum dura-
tion of two and a half hours.

(4) Where any judge of any ‘Court of First
Instance is unable to comply with the provi-
sions of this section he shall record the rea-
sons for such inability and shall forthwith
forward a copy of such reasons to the J udicial
Service. poms Ge #

Appointment 5B. (1) There shall be appointed to every
Steel such court as may be specified by the Minister
pn ~~. by Order published in the Gazette, in con-

sultation with the Chief Justice, an officer to

be called the Master.

) (2) The Master shall sit separately and
- exercise all the powers or jurisdiction vested
in him by subsection (38).

3) The Master shell attend to and deal
with all pre-trial and post-trial matters as
arise in the course of a civil proceeding ins-
tituted in the court to which he is appointed,
including the framing of issues and the re-

cording of admissions: ‘

Provided that it shall be competent for the

- trial judge to record such admissions and

frame such issues, whether by way of amend-

ment of existing issues or otherwise, as may

be considered to be appropriate during the
conduct of the trial before him.


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989 3

(4) The Master may, with the concurrence
‘ of the judge of the court, submit for deter-
© mination by such’ judge any matter which
, may ‘otherwise have been properly. ‘dealt
4 “with by“him, 7-9 fe eH es Baw otis

. Lays:

(5) The judge of. any court: may meth (
the Master any matter of a procedural nature
, arising in the course of an action instituted
‘in that. court after the stage referred to. in
» subsection (3). 3 weap

ma) The Master shall have the power to
_ do all such acts corinected with or incidental
- or ancilliary to, the exercise of the powers
‘. and jurisdiction vested in him by subsection
-; (8), including the maintenance of the Jour-
nals of the Court. i. |

a

Appiontment 3: :.5c.\.(1) There shall be appointed to every
of eee *’ » -@ourt as may be-specified by the Minister by
r _ Order. published in the Gazette, in consul-
‘tation with the Chief Justice, | an officer to be

~ called the Recorder:

~Q). The Recorder shall sit separately and
, exercise all the powers or jurisdiction vested
i in him by subsection (3).

(3) The Recorder shall attend to and deal

_ with all pre-trial and post-trial matters not

“including sentencing as arise in the course

of a criminal proceeding instituted in the

° Court to which he is‘appointed, including the
: “recording of admissions and confessions:

‘Nothing in this section shall prejudice the
powers of the trial ‘judge to record such ad-
missions as may be considered to be appro-
priate during the conduct of fhe trial before
him. ae mee ne

(4) The "provisions of " subsections 4),

(5) and - (6) of section 5p shall, mutatis

Sf mutandis! apply to and in relation to, the

| “powers and functions of a Recorder appointed
under subsection (1).”..°


Amendment
of section

6 of the
principal
enactment.

* Amendment
of section
8 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section 11
of the
principal
enactment.

\

4 Judicature (Amendment) Act, No, 16 of 1989.

e:6.:, Section 6 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed in subsection (1) of that. section, by the substitution for
the words, “Every District. Judge and Judge of the Family
Court, Magistrate and Judge of the Primary Court and”, of -
the words “Every District Judge, Judge of the Small Claims
Court and Magistrate ”. " .

aA ‘Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-

ed ‘as follows : — i 8 eye” cep
a (a) in subsection: (yc of that gection: sti the substitution

for the words “Additional District Judges and
.Judges of the Family Court, Magistrates or Judges

of. the.Primary Court, to the same District Court,

Family Court, Magistrate’s Court and Primary Court

- respectively”, of the words.“ Additional District

Judges, Judges of the Small Claims Court and, Magis-

trate’s Court respectively ” ;

““(b) ‘by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section and the

Ce

substitution, of the following subsection therefor :. —

mate “ (2) Every ‘Additional District Judge, Judge of

"the Small Claims. Court: or. Magistrate appointed to.

_, any such Court, shall sit separately and exercise all.
the. powers and the jurisdiction vested in the Dis-
trict Court, the ‘Small Claims Court or the Magis-

Be i Seo

$26

trate’s Court as-the case may be.” ; and ‘

ae) ro the addition immediately after ‘subsection (2) of

ee eer

that section of the following subsection : —

be, (3) Everi/ Magistrate appointed to a judicial

a

. division shall have.concurrent jurisdiction with the

» Magistrate:appointed far every other judicial divi-
, Sion, for the purposes of exercising jurisdiction
_ under. section 9(d),. (iii).. of the. Code of Criminal

Ee roceoure Acti No. 15-of LOD: »

bt

8. Section 11 of the ‘pHlncipal enactment. ‘is hereby re-

4

iit eadest: (1Qsit

Cys Ts crey
wt ADE IUT A

pealed and the following. section substituted therefor :—

“Ti Trial by 11.- (1) Subject : to, ithe provisions of sub-

_section 42) all trials inthe High Court shall
sabe before.a Judge: of ts. High Court Seng
alone without a. Jury, _


Judicatire (Amendment)Act, ‘No. 16 of 1989 8

(2) Trial in the High Court shall be by
‘Jury before a Judge of the High Court where
at least one of the charges is for un offence
referred to in the Second Schedule hereto
and the accused elects to “be tried by a
Jury.

(3) The election by the ‘accused, to be
-tried by a Jury, shall be made.at any time
f before the commencement of the trial. "oah

9. Section 8 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed ky the substitution for subsection 2) 0 of that section of
the following subsection : —" i

ne (2). The Adibalty. unisdiction, vested in the High
j ‘Cait shall be as provided for by law for the time being
- in force.. The rules in force. immediately prior to the

coming into operation of this Act, shall continue to be in

force until new rules are made, and any acts done in

‘pursuance’ of ‘these rules, after the coming into operation ~

of this Act shall be deemed to have been, and to be, validly
done. ”’..

10. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following-section substituted therefor.:—

“Jurisdiction | 49. (1) Every’ District Court shall« be a
of District.

Courts. -. & court of record and shall within its district
' have afimlimited original jurisdiction in all
eciv revenue, ‘trust, matrimonial, insolvency
and testamentary. matters, save and except
- such of the, aforesaid. matters as are by or
. under, this Act.or by virtue of the provisions
ab any, other enactment: exclusively assigned
by. way of ‘original jurisdiction to any other
“court or ‘vested in any other authority and in
“the exercisé ‘of such jurisdiction to impose
~fines,. penalities and. forfeitures and shall in

‘jike manner ‘also have jurisdiction | over the

Amendment’
of section

13 of the
principal
enactment.

Replacement
of section

.19 of the

principal
enactment,


Insertion
of new
section 19a
in the
principal

enactment. —

Replace-
ment of

section 23 __

of the
principal

enactment.

6 Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989

persons and estates of persons of unsound
‘mind, minors and wards, over the estates of

cocstuis que trust and over guardians and

trustees and in any other matter in which

jurisdiction ‘ig given to District Courts. by

, law. ”.

11. The following new section is hereby inserted imme-
diately after section 19 of the principal enactment and shall
have etect as section 19a of ina enactment :—

ie Civil a
. jurisdiction.

19a. Every. “ District Court shall have
cognizance of and full power to hear and |
determine all pleas, suits and actions in
which a ‘party defendant shall be resident
within the district in which any such suit

or action shall be brought, or in: which the
‘cause of action shall have arisen within. such

district or where the land in respect of which
the.action is brought lies, or is situate wholly

“or partly within such district, or the contract

sought to be enforced was made within such
district. ”,

12. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby re-
pealed' and the following section substituted therefor :—

“ Appeal.

"tr 23. (1) Any’ person: who is dissatisfied
- with any judgment. pronounced by a District

Court in any civil action, proceeding or
matter to which he is a party may prefer an

" appeal to the Court of Appeal against such
judgment for any error in fact or in law.

(2) Any person who is dissatisfied with
any order made by a District Court in the
course of any civil action, proceeding or

. matter to which he is. or. seeks to be a party,

may prefer an appeal to the Court of Appeal
against such order for the correction of any
error in fact or in law, with the leave of the -
Court of Appeal first had and obtained. ”.


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989 q

13. Chapter V (including sections 24 and 29) of the prin-
cipal enactment is hereby repealed and the following
Chapter substituted therefor :— ”

Jurisdiction
of Small

Claims Courts.

“CHAPTER V

SMALL CLatms Courts

24, (1) Every Small Claims Court shall be

a court of record and shall have exclusive
original jurisdiction and shall have cog-
nisance of and full power to hear and
determine all actions in which the debt,
damage, or demand does not exceed such
sum as may be specified by the Minister by
an Order published in the Gazette and in

-' which the party or parties defendant is or

are resident within the jurisdiction of such
court, or in which the cause of action has
arisen within such jurisdiction and all
proceedings under Chapter LXVIA of the
Civil Procedure Code where the land or any
part thereof is situate within the jurisdiction
of such court, and all hypothecary action
in which the amount claimed does not exceed
such sum as may be specified in such order,
and the land hypothecated, or any part

, thereof is situated within the jurisdiction of
such court, and also all actions in which the

title to, interest in, or right to the possession

’ of any land is in dispute, and all actions for

. the partition or sale of land: Provided that
. the value of the land or the particular share,

right, or interest in dispute or to be parti-
tioned or sold does not exceed such sum as
may be specified in such Order and the same
or any part thereof is situate within the
jurisdiction of such court, and shall exercise

any other jurisdiction as may be vested i in it
. by any other law:

Provided always that such court shall not
have cognizance of any action for criminal

- conversation, or for seduction, or for breach
. Of promise of marriage, or for separation a
" mensa et thoro, or for divorce, a vineulo
is. matrimonii, or for declaration of nullity of

marriage.

Replacement

of Chapter V

of the
principal
enactment.


8

Costs.

‘Appeal. |

“where ?
defence or
claim in
reconvention

is beyond OS:
jurisdiction .
of- court.

Judicature (Lmbidivent) Act, No. 16 of 1989

' °@2) ‘An’ Order made under subsection’ (1)
| shall not have effect until it-is approved by
Parliament and notification of such approval

is published in the Gazette.

25. It shall be lawful for the Judge of
every such court, in pronouncing his judg-
ment or order in any case, to make such
order respecting the payment of costs and
expenses as to him shall appear just. and

. reasonable. ,

, an order having the effect of a final judgment
‘of such court may, (except where such right -
is expressly disallowed) appeal to the High
Court established by Article 154p of the Cons-

" titution for. the province in which such Small

“Claims Court is situated, against! any. such

. judgement or order, with the leave of such

_ Small Claims Court or where such leave is

-. refused; with the leave ‘of. such High Court.

© The? High' Court may in the exercise of its

7 appellate jurisdiction in respect of such jud-

. gements or orders, affirm, reverse, modify or

_ correct any such order or judgement accord-

ing ‘to’ law or May give - directions to the

small { Claims Court’ from ‘which the appeal

. has been preferred or order a new trial or

". further hearing, on such terms as such High

‘Court shall think ft WES OM

re-convention : f

P26.” 2 Ange person. Tah is dissatisfied with.
any final judgment of the Small Claims
a Court in any action, proceeding or matier or

27. Where in any pre eaing before any
Small Claims Court any defence or claim in ,
reconvention of the defendant involves mat-
ter beyond the jurisdiction of the Court, such
“defence or’ claim in reconvention shall not:
‘affect the: competence or duty of the Court
‘to dispose-of the matter in controversy in so
far-as it relates to the demand of the plain-
tiff and the defence i sp the claim in


Judicature (Amendment). Act, No. 16 of 1989 © 9

Judge of
Small Claims
Court to
execute
judgments,
&ec, in
appeal.

Where (2°°5

value off.
action is... ;

beyond: °° -
N ser ia,

Of court, .

Amicable
settlement.

} ed. Depa ot

- Provided that in such case it shall be lawful

“for the Court of Appeal or any Judge thereof,

if it shall be thought fit, on the application
of any party to the proceeding, to order that

the whole proceeding be transferred from the .
court in which it is instituted to sorie court

having jurisdiction over the whole matter in
controversy and in such case the record in
such proceeding shall be transmitted by the
Registrar of the Court to the court to which
by such order the proceeding is so transferred
and the same shall thenceforth be continued
and proceeded in such court as if it had been

.,, originally commenced therein.

28. The. Judge, of every ~ Small -(Claims
Court shall conform to and execute all such
judgments, orders, and decrees of the Sup-

, reme., Court or Court of . Appeal or , High

“Court established by. “Article 154P of’ _the
Constitution as shall be made and pronounc-
ed in any appeal, in like manner as any origi-
nal judgment or order pronounced by the
said Judge could or might have been excecut~

SEAS a STNG be)

sows

‘29. Where there’ Gs évidence that the value
“ot any action filed: in any Small Claims Court
is over’ the’ monetary “jurisdiction of that
* Court, the Judge shall make order accordin-
“gly and shall record such fact and thereupon

“the: action, shall stand cei to the ap-
ofa propriate District Court,

at rs

30. It shall be the’ saint gS of the J vide of the

Small Claims Court by all lawful means to

“endeavour to: bring the parties:to an amic-
able settlement where appropriate:and to
_ remove, with their consent, the real cause of —
ie grievance if any, ‘between- them. ,

44. “Chapter VII " Gncluding sections 32 and 36) of. the
principal,enactment i is hereby. repealed.’ .

Repeal of
Chapter VII
of the
principal
enactment.


Amendment
of section

37 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section

45 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment
of section

49 of the
principal
enactment,

Amendment
ef section

52 of the
principal
enactment,

10 -Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989

. 15. Section 37 of the principal: enactment is hereby

amended by the substitution for the. words “the District
Courts, the Family Courts or the Magistrates’ Courts”, of
the words “ the District Courts, the Small Claims Courts or
the Magietrates’ Courts. 2

16. _ Section 45 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ed in subsection (4) of that section, by the substitution for
the words “ District Judge, Judge of the Family Court or
Magistrate”, of the words “District Judge, Judge of the
Small Claims Court or Magistrate ”. |

17. Section 49 of the principal enactment is hereby amend-
ded in the proviso to subsection (3) of that section by the
substitution for the words “the District Court, Family
Court, Magistrates’ Court and Primary Court ”, of the words
“the District Court, pul Claims Court and the Magis-

trates’ Court”. age i

18. Section: 52 of the principal eristtnent is hereby

_ amended as follows :—
. (a) by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section and

the substitution therefor of the following subsec-
tion :—

“ (1) There shall be appointed to the High Court
and to each of the District Courts, Small Claims
_ Courts and Magistrates’ Courts established under
_ this Act, a Registrar, a Deputy Fiscal and such other
officers as may be necessary for the administration
, and for the due execution of the powers and the
performance of the duties of such courts including
the service of process and the execution of decrees
of court and other orders enforceable mndee any

y «© written law.” sand

0) by the addition srametilately, atter gubsection @) of
‘that section, of the following subsection :—

“ (3) Every Deputy Fiscal appointed to a court
shall be responsible for the service of process
issued by that court and the execution of decrees
and orders ‘made by that court and shall act under
the supervision, direction and control of the
fiscal. ”’.


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989 11

19. Section 54 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :

(a) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “High Court, District Court or a
, Family Court”, of the words “ High Court, District
Court or a Small Claims Court”; and

(b) by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the

substitution therefor of the following subsection :—

_ « (3) Such injunctions may be granted at any

time after the commencement of the action and be-

fore final judgment after notice to the defendant,

where the object of granting an injunction will be de-

feated by delay, the court may enjoin the defendant

until the hearing and decision of the application for

oat ain? injunction but for periods, not exceeding
fourteen days at a time.’

20. Section 55:of the principal anaebnent is hereby
amended as follows : —

(a) in subsection (1) of that section by the substitution
for the words “Every District Court, Family Court,
Magistrates’ Court and Primary Court shall”, of

the words “Every District Court, Small Claims
_ Court and Magistrates’ Court shall” ;

_ (b) in subsection (2) of that section—

—@ by the substitution: in paragraph: (a) of that

subsection for the words “by a District Court

~ and Family Court” of the words w bY a Dis-
trict Court ry. ‘

Gi). by the repeal of pafataph (b) of that subsec- .

_ tion and the ‘substitution therefor of ‘the
’ following paragraph :—

fs “@) by the Small Claims Court “and the
Magistrate's Court— ;

_, fine not exceeding one thousand five

— hives rupees or imprisonment

either simple or rigorous for a oa
not exceeding eighteen months. ”

Git) by. the repeal of paragraph ©) of that sub~
section. “8 gFaugey? a 3

Amendment
ofsection ~
54o0fthe |
principal —
enactment,

Amendment
of section

55 of the
principal
enactment,


Repeal”

of section
57 of the

principal

enactment,

Insertion
of new
section

60a in the
principal
enactment,

Repeal of .«
Thirdand « .

Fourth

Schedules ..

to the
principal
enactment.

Amendment

principal
enactment.

12 ‘Judicature: (Amendment) Act; No. 16 of 1989

21, Section 57 of the’ principal enactment | is hereby
SS

BG

{i PAULO

*. 99. ‘The , foam new section is hereby inserted imme-

diately after section 60 of the principal enactment and shall
have. elioct as ae 60a of. that Snachrient,

O)

~ BOA. For the: avoidance, of doubts it is

“Effect °

ofan hereby declared that where, by reason of
under an Order made under section 3, any area of a
section 3.

“judicial zone, judicial district or judicial divi-
‘ sion falls into-another or new. judicial zone,
vet iojudicial district or judicial division, the court
+ jn which any action, proceeding or matter is
a pending on the day immediately preceding
~ ‘the date of such Order, shall have full power
and jurisdiction to carry on and ° complete
such action, proceeding or matter. *’,

+ sry} ne

23. The Third and Fourth Schedules to; the principal en-
actment are hereby repealed.

° 24. The Fifth Schedule to the benetpal enactment is here-

‘by amended .as. follows : ito. papt ) Yet.

(a) by the substitution, for the “words ss The “Genuty
Solicitors-General, Senior Assistant Secretaries to

.’) 9, the various Ministries, The Deputy Secretary-Gene-

yal of Parliament.”, of the words ‘The Deputy Soli-
citors-General, Deputy Legal. ‘Draftsmen, Senior
Assistant Secretaries to the. various Ministries,-:The -
Deputy Secretary-General of. ‘Parliament tg

(b) by. the. substitution, for the ‘words , wf Senior State
Counsel * of the. words. ‘Senior. ‘State Counsel,
Senior Assistant Legal Draftsmen’ ms

* eke) by the substitution, for the words « State Coutisel ad

Assistant Secretaries to the various Ministries”
-capst OF the words “State Counsel, Assistant Legal Drafts-
: men and Assistant Secretaries to the various Minis- —
tries” etl Te, was ute

@ by. the o omission heretroxn of thie relerence to “ Judge,
= “2 cof the samy Court ‘and. Registrars. of Family

ry

Courts” ; | a


Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16.of 1989 13

, i fe) by the substitution for the words “The Judge of each
9 . Primary Court i, of the words ‘“ The Judge of each
qu >, Small Claims Court ”; m4

(f) By the substitution for the words “The Repielarar of

District Courts, Family Courts, Magistrates’ Courts

bo and Primary Courts” of the words “The Registrars

wP O° of District. Courts, Magistrates’ Courts and Small
* Claims Courts”,. respectively ; and

©) by the addition at the end of that Schedule of the
following :— ”

4 >
S18 $0

Aiciiaotiye s Officers in-charge of Police Stations Gndiuding

cul 1. Acting Officers-in-charge of Police Stations) of, or

s:') ‘." above the rank of ° a of Police, for
their respective Pclice areas.’ seers

_ 25. (1) All matrimonial actions, proceedings or matters
pending in a Family Court on the day preceding the date of
coming into operation of this Act, shall stand removed to
' the appropriate District Court and such District Court shall
' have jurisdiction to take cognisance of, hear and determine
or, to continue and complete the same, and the judgments
and orders.of the aforesaid Family Court delivered or made
before the coming into operation of this Act, shall have the
same force and effect as if they have been delivered or made
a: that District Court:

PEC 2 ‘to to} its sibctrire . Bry h “ey

<2) /AML civil actions, vroveedings: or. =matters pending in a
Primary Court, on the day preceding: the date, of coming
into operation of this Act, shall stand removed to the appro-
priate Small Claims Court and such court shall have juris-
diction to take cognisance of, hear and determine or to con-
tinue‘and complete the same, and the judgments and orders
of the aforesaid ' Primary Court delivered or made before
the coming into operation ‘of this Act, shall have the same
force and effect as if they have been delivered or made by
that Small Claims Court, et

(3) “All Atiednied: ‘actions, axtieetings! or matters: pending
in a Primary Court on the day preceding the date of coming
into operation of this Act, shall stand removed to the ap-
propriate Magistrate’s Court and such court shall have
jurisdiction to take cognisance of, hear and determine or to
continue and complete the same and judgements and orders

of the aforesaid Primary Court delivered or made before the

a

Transitional
provisions. ~


14 Judicature (Amendment) Act, No. 16 of 1989-

coming into operation of this Act, in respect of any ‘such
criminal action, proceeding or matter shall have the same
force and effect as if they have been delivered or mae by
that - NINBISUIATES ne OUEts ft yor: ouitle mw oof se

3
aS) \ t)

ey heres Fe 19 : 4°) we

4) All proceedings pending i in a. siprinnary Court under
section 66 of the Primary Courts Procedure Act on the day

‘ preceding the date of coming into operation of this Act, shall

stand removed to the appropriate Small Claims Court and

such court shall have jurisdiction to take cognisance’ of,

hear and determine or to continue or complete the same
and all orders made, in, respect of every such application
before the coming into operation of this Act shall have the
same force and effect as if.they have been made. .by that
Small Claims Court. *.20%)0 9: ./ cree

(5) Where a proceeding under section 66 of the Primary
Courts. Procedure. Act.in respect of a dispute is transferred
toa Small Claims Court, the following provisions shall apply
to the hearing. and determination of such. proceeding :—

@ in making an order under Chapter LXVIA. of the Civil
' Procedure Code (Chapter 101) in respect of such
__ dispute, the Judge of the Small Claims Court shall
“disregard any oral evidence adduced in the Primary
‘Court in the course of such Proceeding);

) for the purpose of the application of subsection we
* -6f section 833C of that Code to such proceeding, the
information in respect of such dispute shall be deem-

“ed to have been filed on that date on which this
Act comes into Gpexallons and 3 sc

~- (e) section 833C (6) (ii) of that Code shall apply to ae
proceeding as if for the reference to “one week”
appearing in that section, there were substituted a
reference to * two weeks”’.. -

eyed ‘yy

26. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the palais text shall
preva? ae |
