PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

FINANCE (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 35 OF 1997

[Certified on 10th December, 1997]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of December 12, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price : Rs. 5.75 Postage : Rs. 2.50


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 1997

[Certified on 1 10th December, r 1997]
L.D.—O. 63/96.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE FINANCE Act, No. 11 oF 1963

_ BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :— ;

1. This Act may be cited as the Finance (Amendment)
Act, No. 35 of 1997.

2. Section 11 of the Finance Act, No. 11 of 1963
(hereinafter referred to as the “principal enactment”) is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

_ “Audit of 11. Article 154 of the Constitution relating
Accounts. —_ tq the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Fund

of the Board.”.

3. Section 14 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed and the following section substituted therefor :—

“National 14. (1) The Board shall, in addition to any
lotteries. lotteries conducted by it under subsection (2),
-conduct the prescribed number of lotteries every

year. Every such lottery shall be conducted by —

the Board, in such manner as may be prescribed.

(2) The Board may conduct lotteries for, or on
behalf of, any Ministry, government department
or public corporation on such terms as may be
agreed between the Board and such Ministry,
government department or public corporation, as
the case may be, (including, inter alia, terms
providing for the crediting of prizes which are
not won in any lottery conducted under such
agreement, to a prize reserve account, to be used
for the award of prizes in. subsequent lotteries
conducted under such agreement and the manner
in which prizes which are forfeited, in lotteries

- conducted under such Sercome are to be
disposed of).. :

2—D 045728—8.550 (97/09)

Short title.

Replacement
of section 11-
of Act No. 11
of 1963.

Replacement
of section 14
of the
principal
enactment.


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 1997

(3) Every lottery conducted by the Board
under this part of this Act is hereinafter referred
to as a “national lottery.”.

Amendment of 4. Section 16 of the principal enactment is ; hereby
section 16 ofthe = amended as follows :—

by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section, and
the substitution of the following subsection
therefor :—

-!"“(1) (a) The number of prizes to be awarded

‘ In a national lottery conducted by the Board,
‘+ . otherwise than under an agreement entered into under

subsection (2) of section 14, and the value of each
such prize shall be as prescribed.

(b) The number of prizes to be awarded in a

‘lottery conducted by the Board under an agreement

_ entered into under subsection (2) of section 14, and

the value of each such prize shall be as specified in.

._ Such agreement.”.

principal

enactment. o8
().
(2)

by the repeal of subsection (3) of that section and the

_ substitution of the following subsection therefor :—

. i “(3) (a) The prize winners in every national
; lottery conducted by the Board, otherwise than under ~

.. an agreement entered into under subsection (2) of

» section 14, shall be Cotermmnee in such manner as

“ may be gaia

SB)? The prize winners ina fiational lottery

~ conducted by the Board, under an agreement entered

into under subsection (2) of section 14, shall be
determined in such manner as may be specified in
such agreement.”.


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 1997 3

(3) ~ by the repeal of subsection (4) of that section, and
‘the substitution, of the following subsection
therefor :— :

“(4) After the expiration of a period of six
months reckoned from the date of determination of
the winners in a national lottery conducted by the
Board, any prize in such national lottery which has
not been granted to the person entitled thereto by
reason of the fact that such person is not to be found
shall be forfeited, and shall, if such prize relates to a

- national lottery, conducted by the Board otherwise
than under an agreement entered into under
subsection (2) of section 14, be paid to the Fund of
the Board, and if such prize relates to a national lottery
conducted by the Board, under an agreement entered
into under subsection (2) of section 14, be disposed
of in accordance with the terms of such agreement :

Provided however, that where any action or
proceeding arising out of any claim made in respect
of such prize is pending before any court at the
expiration of the period aforesaid, such forfeiture shall
not be made, and if in the final determination of that

action or proceeding any person is declared to be
entitled to such prize, the Board shall grant such prize
to that person, and if no person is so declared, such
prize shall be forfeited and shall, if such prize relates
to a national lottery conducted by the Board,
~ otherwise than under an agreement entered into under |
‘~ subsection (2) of section 14, be paid to the Fund of
.. the Board, and if such prize relates to a lottery
conducted by the Board under an agreement entered
into under subsection (2) of section 14, be disposed
~~ of in accordance with the terms of such agreement.”


Amendment of

Finance (Amendment) Ac!, No, 35 of 1997

5. Section 17 of the principal enactment is hereby

section 17 ofthe — amended as follows :-—

principal
enactment.

(1)

by the insertion immediately after subsection (1) of
that section of the following subsection :—

“(1A) Where a prize consisting of money in a
national lottery conducted by the Board, otherwise
than under an agreement entered into under
subsection (2) of section 14, is not won by any person,
such prize money shall notwithstanding anything to
the contrary in this section, be credited to a Prize

.. Reserve Account and the monies accumulated in

such account shall be used for the award of prizes at
subsequent national lotteries conducted by the Board

otherwise than under an agreement entered into under

(2).

3)

subsection (2) of section 14.”.

in subsection (2) of that section, by the substitution

for the words “every national lottery after the
deduction from such proceeds of an amount approved
by the Permanent Secretary” of the words “every
national lottery conducted by the Board, otherwise
than under an agreement entered into under
subsection (2) of section 14, after deducting therefrom
such proceeds of an amount approved by the Secretary

_ to the Ministry of the Minister.”.

by the addition, at the end of that section of the .
following subsections :— '

‘“(3) The Board shall pay to the Ministry,

government department or public corporation with
_ which the Board has entered into an agreement under _

subsection (2) of section 14, through the Consolidated
Fund, the procceds of every national lottery conducted

_ by the Board for such Ministry, government

department or public corporation, as the case may
be, under such agreement, after deduction from such
proceeds, of the value of the prizes awarded in such
national lottery, and of any fees payable, under the
terms of that agreement, to the Board for conducting
such national lottery.


Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 1997 5

(4) All prizes in a national lottery conducted by
the Board, otherwise than under an agreement entered
into under subsection (2) of section 14, which have
been forfeited and paid to the Fund of the Board, under
section 16, shall be credited by the Board to the
Consolidated Fund.”.

6. Section 18 of the principal enactment is hereby
repealed.

7. Section 19 of the principal enactment is hereby repealed
and the following section substituted therefor :-—

“Application of 19. The Lotteries Ordinance shall not
Lotteries apply to or in relation to any national lottery
Ordinance.

conducted by the Board under this Part of this
Act.”,

8. Section 20 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in paragraph (a) of subsection (2) of that section,
by the substitution, for the words “in every national lottery
are to be sold”, of the words “in every national lottery,
conducted by the Board, otherwise than under an agreement
entered into under subsection (2) of section 14, are to be sold”.

9. Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended as follows :-—

(1) by the repeal of the definition of “financial year”, and
the substitution, of the following definition
therefor :—

“financial year” means the period commencing on
January | in any year and ones on December
31 of that year,”; .

by the repeal of the definition of “Minister” and the

(2
substitution, of the following definition therefor :—

ae

“Minister” means the Minister to whom the subject
of Finance has been assigned.”; and

Repeal of section
18 of the principal
enactment.

Replacement of
section 19 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 20 of the
principal
enactment.

Amendment of
section 23 of the
principal
enactment.


6 < Finance (Amendment) Act, No. 35 of 1 997

(3) by the addition, at the end of that section, of the
~ following definition :—

~ “Public Corporation” means any corporation, board
or other body which was or is established by or
under any written law other than the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982, with funds or capital wholly
or partly provided by the Government, by way
of grant, loan or otherwise.”.

’ Sinhala text to 10. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala

prevail incase of _ and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
inconsistency. _.

. id ; . e pe
Bee | das ae ‘
Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),
payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BuREAU, No. 32, TRANswORKS Howse,
Lotus Roan, Coromso 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
