PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

PIRACY
ACT, No. 9 OF 2001

[Certified on 9th August, 2001]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 10, 2001

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price : Rs. 12.25 Postage : Rs. 5.25


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

[Certified on 9th August, 2001]
L.D.—O. 11/97.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE SUPPRESSION OF PIRACY IN SRI LANKA ;
AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Piracy Act, No. 9 of 2001.

PART I
ADMINISTRATION

2. (1) The Sri Lanka Ports Authority in consultation with
the Director of Merchant Shipping shall be responsible for
coordinating all measures for the suppression of piracy in Sri
Lanka and for monitoring the implementation of such
measures.

(2) It shall be the duty of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority to
gather, collate and disseminate information relating to piracy,
in Sri Lanka and out side Sri Lanka, and to provide such
assistance as may be necessary for the implementation of
measures for the suppression of piracy.

PART II
OFFENCES

3. Any person who dishonestly takes or appropriates any
ship, by means of theft, force, intimidation, deception, fraud
or by other similar means, shall be guilty of the offence of
piracy and shall on conviction be punished, subject to the
provisions of sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act. with
imprisonment of either description for a term not less than

2—H 011603—5,550 (03/2001)

Short title.

The Sri Lanka

Ports Authority to
monitor measures
to suppress piracy.

Piracy.


Taking of property
from ship.

Boarding a ship
without lawful
authority.

Retention
possession,
transportation, of
pirated ship and
property.

2 Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

five years and not exceeding ten years and shall also be liable
to a fine not less than one million rupees and not exceeding
ten million rupees or of an amount equal to the value of the
ship in respect of which the offence is committed, whichever
is the greater.

4. Any person who dishonestly takes or appropriates any
property from any ship, by means of theft, force, intimidation,
deception, fraud or other similar means, shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act and shall on conviction be liable, subject
to the provision of sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act, to
imprisonment of either description for a term not less than
three years and not exceeding seven years and to a fine not
less than one million rupees and not exceeding five million
rupees or of an amount equal to the value of the property in
respect of which the offence is committed, whichever is the
greater.

5. Any person who without due permission of the captain,
master or person in charge of a ship or without lawful
authority, enters or boards any ship, while at sea or while
berthed at a port or harbour or on the sea-front, shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act and shall on conviction be liable,
subject to the provisions, of sections 8, 9, and 10 of this Act,
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years and toa
fine.

6. Any person who dishonestly commandeers, receives,
retains or transports any ship or property taken or appropriated
by the commission of an offence under section 3 or section 4
of this Act shall be guilty of an offence, under this Act and
shall on conviction be liable, subject to the provisions of
sections 8, 9 and 10, of this Act, to imprisonment of either
description for a term not exceeding three years and to a fine
not exceeding one million rupees or the value of the property
in respect of which the offence is committed, whichever is
the greater.


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001 3

7. (1) Any person who attempts to commit an offence
under section 3 or 4 of this Act or who aids or abets the
commission of such offence shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act and shall on conviction be liable, subject to the
provisions of sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act, to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding five years and
to a fine not exceeding two million rupees.

(2) Any person who attempts to commit an offence under
section 5 or 6 of this Act shall be guilty of an offence under
this Act and shall on conviction be liable, subject to the
provisions of sections 8, 9 and 10 of this Act, to imprisonment
of either description for a term not exceeding one year and to
a fine.

8. Where at the trial of any person for an offence under
section 3 or section 4 or section 5 or section 6 of this Act, it is
proved that such person used force or intimidation in the
commission of such offence, he may be sentenced to, a term
of imprisonment extending to twelve years.

9. Where at the trial of a person for an offence under
section 3 or section 4 or section 5 or section 6 of this Act, it is
proved that such person was armed with a deadly weapon
when committing such offence, he may be sentenced to a term
of imprisonment extending to fifteen years.

10. Where at the trial of a person for an offence under
section 3 or section 4 or section 5 or section 6 of this Act, it is
proved that such person voluntarily caused hurt to any other
person in the course of committing such offence, such person
and any other person jointly concerned in committing such
offence may be sentenced to a term of imprisonment extending
to twenty years.

11. (1) Where any person is convicted of an offence
under sections 3, 4 or 5 of this Act, the Court shall make
order that any ship, motor vehicle or mode of conveyance or
property, used in, or in connection with, the commission of
such offence, be forfeited to the State, unless the owner of

Attempts.

Use of force or
Intimidation
while committing
an offence.

Use of a weapon
while committing
an offence.

Causing hurt
while committing
an offence.

Forfeiture.


Offences under
this Act to be
cognisable and
non-bailable.

4 Piracy Act, No 9 of 200]

such ship, motor vehicle or mode of conveyance or property
or the person legally entitled to the possession thereof,
establishes to the satisfaction of court, that such ship, motor
vehicle, or mode of conveyance or property was used in or in
connection with the commission of such offence without his
knowledge or connivance.

(2) Any ship, motor vehicle or mode of conveyance or
property forfeited by an order made under subsection (1), shall
vest absolutely in the State. Such vesting shall take
effect —

(a) where no appeal has been made to the Court of
Appeal or Supreme Court within the period allowed
therefor, after the expiration of the period within
which an appeal may be preferred to the Court of
Appeal or the Supreme Court, as the case may be,
against the order of forfeiture ; or

(b) where an appeal has been preferred to the Court of
Appeal or Supreme Court as the case may be, against
the order of forfeiture, upon the final determination
of such appeal affirming or upholding the order of
forfeiture.

(3) Where any ship, motor vehicle or mode of conveyance
or property is vested in the State by an order made under
subsection (1), the Court shall cause such ship, motor vehicle
or mode of conveyance or property to be sold by public auction
and the proceeds of sale credited to the Sri Lanka Ports
Authority.

PART III

INVESTIGATION OF OFFENCES

12. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, every
offence under this Act shall be a cognizable offence and a
non-bailable offence, within the meaning of that Act.


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001 5

(2) A person suspected or accused of being concerned in
committing, or having committed, an offence under sections
3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of this Act shall not be released on bail except
by a Judge of the High Court, on exceptional circumstances
being shown to exist.

13. (1) Every police officer, officer of the Sri Lanka
Customs, officer of the Armed Forces, or officer of the Sri
Lanka Ports Authority with specialized knowledge specially
designated in writing by the Minister, shall for the purposes
of this Act, be an authorized officer.

(2) Every authorised officer shall be deemed to be a peace
officer and an inquirer within the meaning of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979, for exercising, for
the purposes of this Act, any powers and duties conferred or
imposed on a peace officer, or on an inquirer with respect to
cognizable offences, by that Act.

14. Exceptas otherwise provided by this Act, all offences
under this Act shall be investigated, tried or otherwise dealt
with, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979.

15. (1) Where an authorized officer has reasonable
grounds to suspect that the offence of piracy has been
committed, is being committed, or is likely to be committed,
he may, in strict compliance with such procedures as may be
laid down by regulations made by the Minister with the
concurrance of the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and the Director
of Merchant Shipping—

(a) stop and board any ship, motor vehicle or other mode
of conveyance ,

(b) enter any premises ,

(c) search any person or property found on any such
ship, motor vehicle, mode of conveyance or
premises ,

Authorised officer
to be a deemed
peace officer.

Criminal
Procedure Code
to apply.

Powers of an
authorized officer.


6 Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

(d) seize any ship, motor vehicle, mode of conveyance
or property,

which or who is reasonably suspected to have been used
or involved in, or to be used or involved, as the case may
be, in or in connection with, the commission of the
offence :

Provided however, an authorized officer in exercising
his powers under this section, shall not board any ship
which is affected or is likely to be affected by an act of
piracy without.the permission of the master or any other
officer in charge of that ship.

(2) In effecting the seizure of any ship, motor vehicle,
mode of conveyance or property in the exercise of the powers
conferred on him by subsection (1), an authorized officer may
use such force as may reasonably be necessary.

(3) (a) Where any ship, motor vehicle, mode of
conveyance or property is seized by any authorized officer in
the exercise of the powers conferred on him, by subsection
(1), such authorized officer shall as soon as practicable,
produce such ship, motor vehicle, mode of conveyance or
property before, or make it available for inspection by, the
Judge of the High Court, established by Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province.

(b) Where a judge before whom any ship, motor vehicle,
mode of conveyance or property is produced under paragraph
(a) is satisfied, after such inquiry as he may deem necessary,
that such ship, motor vehicle, mode of conveyance or property
has been used in, or in connection with, the commission of an
offence under section 3 or 4 of this Act, he may make order
that such ship, motor vehicle, mode of conveyance or property
be forfeited to the State.


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001 7

(c) The provisions of subsections (2) and (3) of section
11 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such order of forfeiture.

PART IV

TRIAL OF OFFENCES

16. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other
law, the High Court established under Article 154P of the
Constitution for the Western Province shall have jurisdiction
to hear and determine any offence under sections 3, 4, 5, 6 or
7 of this Act, where such offence was committed within the
territorial waters of Sri Lanka or committed outside the
territorial waters of Sri Lanka by a Sri Lankan or in respect
of a ship registered in Sri Lanka.

17, (1) Anything in the Code of Criminal Procedure Act
No. 15 of 1979 or any other written law to the contrary
notwithstanding, the Attorney General shall indict a person
for an offence under this Act committed by reason of a
contravention of any of the provisions of sections 3, 4, 5, 6 or
7 of this Act before the relevant High Court, without a
preliminary inquiry by a Magistrate’s Court as provided in
Chapter XV of that Act.

(2) The following provisions shall apply in any case where
the Attorney General indicts a person before the High Court
under subsection (1) :-—

(a) An indictment prepared in the manner prescribed
by section 162 of the Code of Criminal Procedure
Act, No. 15 of 1979 shall be transmitted by the
Attorney General to the High Court. The Attorney
General shall at the same time transmit to the Fiscal
of the Court in which the trial is to take place a copy
or copies of the indictment for service on the accused
person or each of the accused persons who will be
tried upon the indictment. The Fiscal shall forthwith

Jurisdiction of
High Court to try
offences under
this Act.

Power of Attorney
General to indict.


(b)

(c)

Co)

Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

and at least fourteen days before the day specified
for trial serve or cause to be served on the accused
person or each of the accused persons, the copy ora
copy of the indictment received by him from the
AttorneyGeneral and shall make a return of such
service to the High Court and to the Attorney General
or any officer appointed by the Attorney General to
represent him.

The High Court shall forthwith upon the receipt of
the indictment cause to be served on the accused
person a notice specifying the date fixed for his trial.

(i) Subject to the provisions of sub-paragraph (ii)
of this paragraph service on an accused person of
any indictment or notice of trial shall be effected in
the manner prescribed for the service of summons
in sections 45 and 46 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure Act, No. 15 of 1979 and the provisions of
section 49 of that Act shall apply accordingly for
the purpose of proving such service ;

(ii) if service cannot be effected in the manner

specified in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph, by
the exercise of due diligence, the indictment or notice
shall be affixed to some conspicuous part of the
house in which the accused person ordinarily resides,
and in such case the indictment or notice shall be
deemed to have been duly served.

The Attorney General shall, before the date of trial,
cause to be furnished to the accused person—

(i) a concise statement of the particulars of the
charge and a list of witnesses who are likely to
be called to give evidence and a list of
documents that may be used by the prosecutor ;
and


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001 9

a
a

(1i) asummary of such of the facts as are proposed
to be relied on by the prosecutor.

(e) At the trial of that person, the High Court or the
prosecutor may, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in any other written law, call any such
witness, or use or produce any such document, as is
not specified in the indictment.

18. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Evidence Ordinance or any other law, the provisions of this
section shall apply with respect to proceedings for offences
under sections 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of this Act.

(2) Any statement not amounting to a confession made
by any officer, employee or passenger of any ship and recorded
during an investigation or inquiry under this Act and touching
any fact in issue or relevant matter in any proceeding for an
offence under sections 3, 4, 5, 6 or 7 of this Act of which
direct oral evidence by him would be admissible, shall be
admissible as evidence in such proceeding.

(3) Any statement made by any person in a document or
other record touching any fact in issue or relevant matter in
any proceeding for an offence under section 3 or 4 or 5 or 6
or 7 of this Act shall be admissible in such proceeding if—

(a) direct oral evidence by such person of such fact in
issue or relevant matter would be admissible in such
proceeding ; and

(b) the person who made the statement is dead or by
reason of his bodily or mental condition is unfit to
attend as a witness ; or

(c) the person who made the statement is outside Sri
Lanka or cannot be found after reasonable steps have
been taken to find such person, or that there are

Evidence.


10 Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

reasonable grounds to believe that the person who
made the statement is being prevented from giving
evidence in such proceeding ; and

(d) the statement does not amount to a confession made
by a person accused of the offence to which the
proceeding relates.

(4) Any statement in a document or other record made,
compiled, received or obtained during the course of any
business, trade or profession or other regularly conducted
activity and touching any fact in issue or relevant matter in
any proceeding for an offence under section 3, 4, 6 or 7 of
this Act shall be admissible in evidence in such proceeding
if—

(a) direct oral evidence of the fact in issue or relevant
matter would be admissibie in such proceeding ;

(b) the statement does not amount to a confession made
by a person accused of the offence to which the
proceeding relates.

The Court shall unless the contrary is proved, presume the
truth of such statement in the document or other record and
in the case of a document or record made, compiled, received
or obtained by a person, that the document or record was made,
compiled, received or obtained by the person who is purported
to have made, compiled, received or obtained it.

(5) Subject to the preceeding provisions of this section,
any statement amounting to a confession made by any person
suspected of having committed an offence under sections 3,
4, 5, 6 or 7 of this Act shall be admissible against him in any
proceeding for any offence under this Act if the statement is
not made toa police officer and is not irrelevant under section
24 of the Evidence Ordinance.


Piracy Act, No 9 of 200] 11

PART V

GENERAL

19. (1) Any person who, resists or obstructs any
authorized officer in the exercise, by such authorized officer,
of any power conferred on him by this Act, or fails to comply
with any lawful order given to him by an authorized officer
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and shall on
conviction after summary: trial by a Magistrate be liable to
imprisonment to a term not exceeding three years.

(2) Every person who contravenes any regulation made
under this Act shall be guilty of an offence under this Act and
shall on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be
liable to a fine not exceeding fifty thousand rupees.

20. An authorised officer shall not be liable to any action
or prosecution, civil or criminal, for anything done, or omitted
to be done, by him, bonafide, under this Act,

21. (1) The Minister may make regulations for the
purpose of carrying out or giving effect to the principles and
provisions of this Act.

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister may
make regulations for or in respect of all or any of the following
matters :-—

(a) the measures to be taken for the purpose of
preventing, detecting and investigating offences
under this Act ;

(b) (i) the determination of any zones as restricted or
prohibited zones for any class of ship, and

(ii) the issue of permits to enter any restricted zones
so determined ;

Obstructing
authorized
officers &c.

Protection of
authorized
officers.

Regulations.


Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

12 Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001

(c) the co-ordinating and monitoring functions of the
Sri Lanka Ports Authority ;

(d) the establishment of a reward scheme for the granting
of rewards to persons furnishing information leading
to the detection of offences under this Act, and to
persons implementing measures for the suppression
of piracy ;

(e) the formulation of procedures for the exercise of
powers by an authorized officer under section 15.

(3) The Minister shall not make any regulation in respect
of the matters set out in paragraph (b) of subsection (2) except
with the concurrence of the Minister in charge of the subject
of Shipping and in conformity, as far as practicable, with the
obligations of Sri Lanka under the United Nations Convention
on the Law of the Sea.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette, and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication, or on such later date as may be
specified in such regulation.

(5) Every regulation made by the Minister shall as soon
as convenient after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the date
of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder. ©

(6) Notification of the date on which any regulation is so
deemed to be rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

22. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.


Piracy Act, No 9 of 2001 13

23. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—

“confession” and “fact in issue” have the respective
meanings assigned to them by the Evidence
Ordinance ;

“deadly weapon”, “dishonestly”, “force”, “theft”,
“voluntarily causing hurt”, shall have the same
meanings as in the Penal Code ;

“motor vehicle” has the same meaning as in the Motor
Traffic Act ;

“ship” means every description of ship or vessel or boat,
or any other description of vessel used in navigation
and includes all equipment, apparel and
appurtenances (excluding supplies for sustenance)
which are necessary for the navigation and conduct
of the business of the ship ;

“Sri Lanka Ports Authority” means the Sri Lanka Ports
Authority established by the Sri Lanka Ports
Authority Act, No. 51 of 1979.

Interpretation.


Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180

(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PusBLicaTIONs Bureau, No. 32,

Transworks House, Lotus Roap, Cotomso 01 before 15th December each year in respect
of the year following.
