PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

GRANT OF CITIZENSHIP TO PERSONS OFINDIAN ORIGIN (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 6 OF 2009

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th February, 2009]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 4.00Postage : Rs. 5.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of February 20, 2009

1Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009

[Certified on 18th February, 2009]

L.D.O. 62/2007.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE GRANT OF CITIZENSHIP TO PERSONS OF INDIANORIGIN ACT, NO. 35 OF 2003

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Grant of Citizenshipto Persons of Indian Origin (Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009.

2.Section 2 of the Grant of Citizenship to persons ofIndian Origin Act No. 35 of 2003 (hereinafter referred to asthe principal enactment) is hereby amended

(1)by the substitution for the words shall begranted the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka of thewords shall have the status of a citizen of Sri Lanka;and

(2)by the repeal of the proviso thereof, and thesubstitution therefor, of the following :

Provided however, where on the date of thecoming into operation of this Act, a permanentresident referred to above, holds an Indian Passportor other similar document, such persons status of acitizen of Sri Lanka shall be effective only on hisforwarding to the Commissioner a declaration inthe special form of Declaration set out in theSchedule, stating his intention to voluntarily acquirecitizenship of Sri Lanka and upon such Declarationbeing acknowledged by the Commissioner inwriting..

Short title.

Amendment ofsection 2 of Act,No. 35 of 2003.

Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20092

3.The following new section is hereby insertedimmediately after section 2 of the principal enactment andshall have effect as section 2A of such enactment :

2A. Notwithstanding the provisions ofsection 2, any person who was a permanentresident of Sri Lanka with Indian Origin sinceOctober 30, 1964 or a descendent of such person,who due to circumstances beyond the controlof such person

(a)was compelled to leave Sri Lank; and

(b)thereupon took up residence in India;

and who consequently had as at the dayimmediately preceding the date of the cominginto operation of this Act, been unable to complywith the requirements of section 2, shall, if suchperson is able to submit proof that such personwas a permanent resident of Sri Lanka withIndian Origin since October 30, 1964 or is adescendant of a person who has been apermanent resident of Sri Lanka with Indianorigin since October 30, 1964, have the statusof a citizen of Sri Lanka with effect from thedate of commencement of this Act and shall beentitled to all the rights and privileges to whicha citizen of Sri Lanka is entitled to by law:

Provided howerer, where on the date of thecoming into operation of this Act, any personreferred to above, holds an Indian Passport orother similar document, such persons status ofa citizen of Sri Lanka, shall be effective only onhis forwarding to the Commissioner aDeclaration in the special form of Declaration

Grant ofCitizenship tocertainpersons.

Insertion ofsection 2A in theprincipalenactment.

3Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 2009

Amendment ofsection 4 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

set out in the Schedule, stating his intention tovoluntarily acquire citizenship of Sri Lanka andupon such declaration being acknowledged bythe Commissioner in writing..

4.Section 4 of the principal enactment is herebyamended in subsection (1) thereof

(1)by the substitution for the words and figures byvirtue of the provisions of section 2, of the wordsand figures by virtue of the provisions of section 2or 2A; and

(2)by the substitution for the words Form set out inthe same Schedule., of the words and figures Formset out in the same Schedule :

Provided however, any person who is entitled tothe status of a citizen of Sri Lanka under theprovision of section 2A, shall apply for a Certificateof Citizenship under this Act, only upon his arrivalin Sri Lanka with the intention of permanentlyresiding in Sri Lanka..

5.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Grant of Citizenship to Persons of Indian Origin(Amendment) Act, No. 6 of 20094

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.