PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LANGUAGEEDUCATION AND TRAININGACT, No. 26 OF 2007

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 13th July, 2007]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 14.00Postage : Rs. 7.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of July 13, 2007

1National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

[Certified on 13th July 2007]

L.D.O. 20/2006.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE NATIONAL INSTITUTE

OF LANGUAGE EDUCATION AND TRAINING ; AND FOR MATTERS

CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the National Institute ofLanguage Education and Training Act, No. 26 of 2007.

PART I

NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF LANGUAGE EDUCATION AND TRAINING

2.There shall be established an Institute to be called theNational Institute of Language Education and Training(hereinafter referred to as the Institute). The Institute shallby the name assigned to it by this section, be a body corporatewith perpetual succession and a common seal and may sueand be sued in such name.

3.(1) The administration and management of the affairsof the Institute shall be vested in a Board of Management(hereinafter referred to as the Board) consisting of suchmembers as hereinafter provided.

(2) The Board shall consist of

(a)the following ex-officio members appointed bythe Minister :

(i)the person for the time being holding theoffice of Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofEducation ;

Short title.

Establishment ofNational Instituteof LanguageEducation andTraining.

Board ofManagement.

2National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(ii)the person for the time being holding theoffice of Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject of PublicAdministration ;

(iii)the person for the time being holding theoffice of Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofFinance ; and

(iv)the person for the time being holding theoffice of Secretary to the Ministry of theMinister in charge of the subject ofConstitutional Affairs and NationalIntegration ; and

(b)five other members appointed by the Ministerfrom among persons who have had experienceand have shown capacity in the fields oflanguages, literature and education andmanagement.

(3) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman of the Boardfrom among the members of the Board.

(4) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall applyin relation to the appointment and terms of office of membersof the Board, the remuneration payable to such members, themeetings of the Board and the Seal of the Institute.

4.The objects for which the Institute is established shallbe to serve as an Institute that shall generate

(a)competent teachers to teach Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish to those who are desirous of acquiring suchknowledge ;

(b)competent translators and interpreters in the Sinhala,Tamil, and English languages who shall constitutethe National Translators Service and the NationalInterpreters Service to be established by written law ;

Objects of theInstitute.

3National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(c)qualified trainers to train language teachers,translators and interpreters in the Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish Languages ;

(d)trained persons with trilingual capabilities for theefficient provision of services to the public.

5.The functions of the Institute shall be

(a)to provide extensive training in the Sinhala, Tamiland English languages so as to make availablepersons competent to teach Sinhala, Tamil andEnglish to persons who are desirous of acquiringsuch knowledge ;

(b)to conduct research and studies on issues relating tolanguage training, with a view to utilizing the resultsof such research and studies for the effectivefunctioning of the Institute ;

(c)to provide training and education to suitable personsin languages and to award certificates and diplomasto successful candidates on completion of suchtraining and education ;

(d)to build up a body of trained personnel equipped toundertake the teaching of languages ;

(e)to establish a repository of information on mattersrelating to languages ;

(f)to conduct specified language courses in Sinhala,Tamil and English languages for special categoriesof person such as interpreters, translators andstenographers ; and

The functions ofthe Institute.

4National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(g)to undertake, assist, and promote linguistic researchactivities in Sinhala, Tamil and English languagesand foreign languages and where it appears to benecessary make recommendation to the relevantauthorities on the improvements and changes to bemade to the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages.

6.For the purpose of effectively discharging itsfunctions, the Institute shall have the power-

(a)to accept and receive grants, donations, gifts,bequests both movable and immovable, fromdomestic and foreign sources, and to apply them tothe promotion of its aims and objects ;

(b)to acquire and hold property, movable or immovable,which may vest in it by virtue of any purchase, grant,gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise andsubject to the rules of the Institute, to sell, assign,exchange or otherwise dispose of the same ;

(c)to enter into agreements for co-operation witheducational and other institutions, whether in SriLanka or abroad, having objects wholly or partlysimilar to those of the Institute, for the exchange ofpersonnel, advisory services, research, the trainingof personnel or generally, for such purposes as maybe conducive to the objects of the Institute ;

(d)to open and maintain current, savings or depositaccounts in any bank or banks ;

(e)to enter into all such contracts as may be necessaryfor the discharge of its functions ;

(f)to invest its funds in such securities as may beapproved by the Board ;

Powers of theInstitute.

5National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(g)to collect, print and publish reports, periodicals andpapers on subjects falling within the purview of theInstitute ;

(h)to conduct lectures, seminars and workshops onsubjects relevant to the discharge of the functionsof the Institute ;

(i)to make rules in respect of the management of theaffairs of the Institute ;

(j)to raise or borrow money for the purpose of theInstitute on any security or otherwise and to secureor discharge any debt or obligation of the Institutein such manner as the Board deems fit;

(k)to establish a library of relevant publications andresearch reports of all areas coming within thepurview of the Institute ;

(l)to call for applications and select persons eligibleto undergo training at the Institute ;

(m)to maintain association with institutions havingsimilar objects in other countries and to developworking relationships ; and

(n)to do such other acts and things as may be necessaryto promote the objects of the Institute.

7.There shall be an Academic Board of the Institute(hereinafter referred to as the Academic Board) which shallconsist of the following persons :

(i)the Chairman of the Institute ;

(ii)the Director-General of the Institute ;

(iii)the Commissioner of the Department of OfficialLanguages ;

Academic Board.

6National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(iv)six Department Heads appointed by the Board inconsultation with the University Grants Commission,from among the Department Heads of the Sinhala,Tamil and English Departments and the LinguisticDepartments of all Universities established underthe Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.

8.(1) The Academic Board shall be responsible to theInstitute and shall have the power to

(a)advise the Institute subject to the provisions of thisAct, on such matters as may relate to the academicactivities of the Institute ;

(b)conduct examinations in accordance with therules of the Institute and recommend to the Board,persons who having passed such examinations andsatisfied such other conditions as the Institute mayprescribe, are eligible for the award of diplomas,certificates and other academic distinctions of theInstitute ;

(c)consider the report on any matter referred to it bythe Board ;

(d)make and forward recommendations and reports tothe Board on all matters connected with the coursesfor study, training programmes and examinationsconducted by the Institute ;

(e)recommend to the Board requirements that shall beimposed for admission of students to courses of studyor training programmes and examinationsconducted by the Institute ;

(f)make rules relating to courses of study, trainingprogrammes and examinations conducted by theInstitute and submit such rules to the Board ;

Powers of theAcademic Board.

7National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(g)recommend to the Board, names of persons suitablefor appointment as examiners at examinationsconducted by the Institute ;

(h)recommend to the Board rules, schemes ofrecruitment and procedures relating to theappointment, dismissal and disciplinary control ofthe academic staff of the Institute, their wages,remuneration, allowances and fees and their hoursof work, holidays and leave ;

(i)recommend to the Board, conditions that shall beapplicable to the awarding of scholarships,exhibitions, bursaries, medals and prizes awardedby the Institute ;

(j)recommend to the Board, persons who have satisfiedthe conditions approved by the Board for thescholarships, exhibitions, bursaries, medals andprizes ;

(k)appoint, with the approval of the Board, committeescomprising the representatives of the AcademicBoard ; and

(l)make rules relating to the meetings of the AcademicBoard and for the regulation of the procedure to befollowed at such meetings.

(2) The Board or any officer to whom powers in respect ofany academic matter referred to in subsection (1) has beendelegated shall not take any decision on that matter withoutthe prior recommendation of the Academic Board beingobtained. Where the decision of the Board or such officer iscontrary to the recommendation of the Academic Board, theBoard or such officer shall adduce reasons for not adheringto the recommendation of the Academic Board.

8National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(3) No act, recommendation or report of the AcademicBoard shall be invalidated by reason only of the existence ofa vacancy among its member or any defect in the appointmentof any member thereof.

PART II

STAFF OF THE INSTITUTE

9.(1) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Board,appoint a Director-General of the Institute from among personswho have gained eminence in the field of Management.

(2) Director-General shall be the chief executive officerof the Institute.

(3) The Director-General shall, subject to the directionsof the Board :

(a)establish a network with local and internationalstakeholders;

(b)be responsible for the administration of the affairsof the Institute;

(c)be responsible for the appointment and disciplinarycontrol of the staff of the Institute;

(d)be the Secretary to the Board;

(e)be responsible for the implementation of thedecisions of the Board; and

(f)discharge such other functions as may be assignedby the Board.

(4) The Director-General shall be entitled to be presentand express his views at any meetings of the Board, but shallnot be entitled to vote at such meetings.

10. The Institute shall, subject to the provisions of thisAct, have the power to

(a)appoint such staff as it considers necessary for thedischarge of its functions, and exercise disciplinarycontrol over such staff;

Director-Generalof the Institute.

Appointment & c.of the staffof theInstitute.

9National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(b)fix the rates at which member of the staff shall beremunerated; and

(c)determine the terms and conditions of service of thestaff of the Institute.

11. (1) At the request of the Board any officer in thepublic service may, with the consent of that officer and of theSecretary to the relevant Ministry or Ministries, betemporarily appointed to the staff of the Institute for suchperiod as may be determined by the Board, or with likeconsent be permanently appointed to such staff.

(2) Where any officer in the public service is temporarilyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (2) section 14 of the National Trasport CommissionAct, No. 37 of 1991 shall mutatis mutandis, apply to, and inrelation to him.

(3) Where any officer in the public service is permanentlyappointed to the staff of the Institute, the provisions ofsubsection (3) of section 14 of the National TransportCommission Act, No. 37 of 1991 shall, mutatis mutandis,apply to, and in relation to, him.

(4) Where the Institute employs any person who hasentered into a contract with the Government to serve theGovernment for a specified period, any period of service tothe Institute by such person shall be regarded as service tothe Government, for the purpose of discharging theobligations of such contract.

(5) At the request of the Board any officer or servant ofany Higher Educational Institution may with the consent ofsuch officer or servant and the principal executive officer ofthat Higher Educational Institution, be temporarily appointedto the staff of the Institute for such period as may be

Appointment ofpublic officers tothe staff of theInstitute.

10National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

determined by the Board or with like consent be permanentlyappointed to such staff, on such conditions, including thoserelating to pension and provident fund rights, as may beagreed upon by the Board and such principal executiveofficer.

(6) Where any officer or servant of any Higher EducationalInstitution is temporarily appointed to the staff of theInstitute, he shall be subject to the same disciplinary controlas any other member of such staff.

(7) In this section, the expressions Higher EducationInstitution and principal executive officer shall have therespective meanings assigned to them by the UniversitiesAct, No. 16 of 1978.

PART III

FINANCE

12.(1) The Institute shall have its own Fund.

(2) There shall be paid into the Fund of the Institute

(a)all such sums of money as may be voted from timeto time, by Parliament for the use of the Institute;

(b)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute in the exercise, and discharge of its powersand functions;

(c)all such sums of money as may be received by theInstitute by way of donations, gifts and grants fromany source in Sri Lanka or abroad; and

(d)all such sums of money as may be received as theincome derived from the investment of its funds.

Fund of theInstitute.

11National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund of the Institute allsuch sums of money as may be required to defray anyexpenditure incurred by the Institute in the exercise anddischarge of its powers and functions under this Act, and anyother expenditure which is authorized or required to be paidout of the Fund of the Institute by any provision of this Act.

13.(1) The financial year of the Institute shall be thecalendar year.

(2) The Board shall cause proper books of accounts to bekept of the income and expenditure, assets and liabilitiesand all other transactions of the Institute.

(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitutionrelating to the audit of the accounts of public corporationsshall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Institute.

PART IV

GENERAL

14.(1) The Board may delegate to the Chairman of theBoard any of its power, duties or functions other than itspowers under this subsection.

(2) The Chairman of the Board to whom any power, dutyor function has been delegated under subsection (1) shallexercise, perform and discharge such power, duty or functionsubject to the directions of the Board.

15.(1) There shall be an Advisory Council (hereinafterreferred to as the Council) which shall advise the Instituteon the effectiveness of the measures taken for thepromotion of the Institute and provide a forum to discussissues relating to the Institute and the development of theInstitute.

Financial year andthe audit of theaccounts of theInstitute.

Delegation ofpowers of theBoard to theChairman of theBoard.

Advisory Council.

12National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(2) The Council shall consist of five persons appointedby the Minister in charge of the subject of National Integrationfrom among persons who are engaged in the field of languages,literature and education and have achieved eminence in suchfields.

16.The Board may appoint such number of standingcommittees or ad hoc committees as it may deem necessaryfor the exercise, performance and discharge of the powers,functions and duties of the Institute.

17.The Minister in charge of the subject of NationalIntegration may, in consultation with the Board, from time totime, issue such general or special directions in writing to theBoard as to the exercise and discharge by the Board of itspowers and functions in so far as they relate to matters ofpolicy and it shall be the duty of the Board to give effect toall such directions.

18.All members of the Board and officers and servantsof the Institute shall be deemed to be public officers withinthe meaning, and for the purposes, of the Penal Code.

19.The Institute shall be deemed to be a ScheduledInstitution within the meaning of the Bribery Act and theprovisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

20.(1) Every member of the Board and all officers andservants of the Institute shall, before entering upon his dutiessign a declaration pledging himself to observe secrecyrespecting all matters connected with the working of theInstitute, and shall by such declaration pledge himself not toreveal any matter which may come to his knowledge in thedischarge of his functions, except

(a)when required to do so by a court of law; and

Power of theBoard to appointstandingcommittees or adhoc committees.

Directions to theBoard.

Members, officersand servants ofthe Board deemedto be publicofficers.

Institute deemedto be a ScheduledInstitution withinthe meaning ofthe Bribery Act.

Declaration ofsecretary.

13National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(b)in order to comply with any provisions of this Act.

(2) A member of the Board or officer or servant of theInstitute who discloses any information obtained by him inconnection with the discharge of his functions under thisAct, to any person for any purpose other than for a purposeauthorized by subsection (1), shall be guilty of an offenceunder this Act and shall on conviction after summary trial bya Magistrate be liable to a fine not exceeding ten thousandrupees.

21.(1) The Minister may make regulations in respectof all matters which are required by this Act to be prescribedor in respect of which regulations are required or authorizedto be made under this Act.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall bepublished in the Gazette and shall come into operation onthe date of publication or on such later date, as may bespecified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as soonas convenient after its publication in the Gazette, be broughtbefore Parliament for approval.

(4) any regulation which is not so approved shall bedeemed to be rescinded as from the date of disapproval butwithout prejudice to anything previously done thereunder.

(5) The notification of the date on which any regulationis deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

22.(1) Where any immovable property of the State isrequired for any purpose of the Institute, such purpose shallbe deemed to be a purpose for which a special grant or leaseof such property may be made under section 6 of the StateLands Ordinance, and accordingly, the provisions of thatOrdinance shall apply to a special grant or lease of suchproperty to the Institute.

Regulations.

State propertyboth movable andimmovable bemade available tothe Institute.

14National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(2) Where any movable property of the State is requiredfor the purpose of the Institute, the Minister who has authorityand control over such property may, by Order published inthe Gazette, transfer to and vest in the Institute the possessionand use of such movable property.

23.The Board shall at the end of each financial yearpublish a Report of the activities of the Institute during theyear and it shall be submitted to the Minister for approval.On being approved by the Minister such Report shall be laidbefore Parliament.

24.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

25.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

local authority means any Municipal Council,Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha andincludes any Authority created and establishedby or under any written law to exercise, performand discharge powers, duties and functionscorresponding to, or similar to, the powers,duties and functions exercised performed anddischarged by any such Council or Sabha;

Provincial Council means a Provincial Councilestablished by Chapter XVIIA of theConstitution ; and

University Grants Commission means theUniversity Grants Commission establishedunder the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978.

Annual report.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofany inconsistency.

Interpretation.

15National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

SCHEDULE(Section 3)

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD

1. A person shall be disqualified from being appointed or continuingas a member of the Board

(a)if he is, or becomes, a member of Parliament, any ProvincialCouncil or any local authority;

(b)if he is not, or ceases to be a citizen of Sri Lanka;

(c)if he is under any law in force in Sri Lanka or in any othercountry, found or declared to be of unsound mind;

(d)if he is serving or has served, a sentence of imprisonmentimposed by any court in Sri Lanka or any other country; or

(e)if he had been dealt with under the provisions of section 303or section 306 of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act, No.15 of 1979.

2. Every member of the Board shall, unless he vacates office earlierby death, resignation or removal, hold office for a term of three yearsfrom the date of his appointment and shall unless he has been removedfrom office, be eligible for re-appointment:

Provided, that a member appointed in place of a member who hadvacated office by death, resignation or removal, shall hold office forthe unexpired part of the term of office of the member whom hesucceeds.

3. The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette, and forreasons assigned, remove any member of the Board from office. Amember in respect of whom an Order is made under this paragraphshall be deemed to have vacated office on the date of publication ofsuch Order in the Gazette.

4. A member of the Board may at any time resign from office byletter to that effect addressed to the Minister and such resignation shalltake effect upon it being accepted by the Minister in writing.

5. In the event of the vacation of office by death, resignation orremoval by any member of the Board, the Minister may, having regardto the provisions of subsection (2) of section 3 appoint any otherperson in place of such member. Any person so appointed in place ofsuch member, shall hold office during the unexpired part of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

16National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

6. Where a member of the Board by reason of illness, infirmity orabsence from Sri Lanka for a period not less than three months, istemporarily unable to perform his duties it shall be the duty of suchmember to inform the Minister in writing of such inability. Thereupon,the Minister may having regard to the provisions of subsection (2) ofsection 3 appoint some other person to act in his place during suchperiod.

7. The members of the Board may be paid such remuneration outof the Fund of the Institute as the Minister may, with the concurrence ofthe Minister in charge of the subject of Finance, determine.

8. (1) The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at everymeeting of the Board. In the absence of the Chairman from any suchmeeting, the members present shall elect one of the members present,to preside at such meeting.

(2) The quorum for any meeting of the Board shall be threemembers.

(3) The person presiding at any meeting of the Board shall, inaddition to his own vote, have a casting vote.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the Board mayregulate the procedure in regard to the meetings of the Board and thetransaction of business at such meetings.

9. No act, decision or proceeding of the Board shall be deemed tobe invalid by reason only of the existence of any vacancy in the Boardor any defect in the appointment of any member thereof.

10. (1) The Seal of the Institute may be determined and devised bythe Board and may be altered in such manner as may be determined bythe Board.

(2) The Seal of the Institute shall be in the custody of such personas the Board may decide, from time to time.

(3) The Seal of the Institute shall not be affixed to any instrumentor document except with the sanction of the Board and in the presenceof the Direction-General of the Institute and one member of the Boardwho shall sign the instrument or document in token of their presence.

(4) The Board shall maintain a register of the instruments anddocuments to which the Seal of the Institute has been affixed.

11. (1) If the Chairman is, by reason of illness or absence fromSri Lanka temporarily unable to perform the duties of his office, theMinister may appoint another member of the Board to act in his place.

17National Institute of Language Education andTraining Act, No. 26 of 2007

(2) The Minister may, for reasons assigned and by Order publishedin the Gazette, remove the Chairman from the office of Chairman.

(3) The Chairman may at any time resign from the office ofChairman by a letter addressed to the Minister. Such resignation shalltake effect upon it being accepted by the Minister in writing.

(4) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3), the term ofoffice of the Chairman shall be his period of membership of the Board.

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA AVENUE, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.