PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 1

Price : Rs. 4.50 Postage : Rs. 3.50

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka of August 18, 2000

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

BANK OF CEYLON (AMENDMENT)ACT, No. 54 OF 2000

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

1Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)Act, No. 54 of 2000

2H 0080305,550 (06/00)

[Certified on 18th August, 2000]

L.D.O. 9/99.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE BANK OF CEYLON ORDINANCE

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :

1.This Act may be cited as the Bank of Ceylon(Amendment) Act, No. 54 of 2000.

2.Section 7 of the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter397) (hereinafter referred to as the principal enactment) ishereby amended by the repeal of subsection (1) of that section,and the substitution, of the following subsection therefor :

(1) The authorized capital of the bank shall be fiftybillion rupees divided into fifty million shares of onethousand rupees each..

3.Section 16 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) by the substitution, for the words specified eitherin section 17 or in section 19, of the wordsspecified in section 17 or in section 17A or in section19 ; and

(2) by the substitution, for the words in accordance withsection 17, of the words in accordance with section17 or section 17A.

4.Section 17 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

17. Subject to the provisions of section 20,the Board may by resolution to be recorded inwriting authorize any person specified in theresolution to enter upon and take possession ofany immovable property mortgaged to the bank

Authoriza-tion ofmanager totakepossession ofimmovableproperty.

Replacement ofsection 17 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 16 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 7 ofChapter 397.

Short title.

2Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)Act, No. 54 of 2000

as security for any loan, overdraft, advance orother accommodation in respect of whichdefault has been made and to manage andmaintain such property and to exercise the samepowers in the control and management of suchproperty as might have been exercised by themortgagor, if he had not made default..

5.The following section is hereby inserted immediatelyafter section 17 and shall have effect as section 17A of theprincipal enactment :

17A. Subject to the provisions of section 20,the Board may by resolution to be recorded inwriting authorize any person specified in theresolution to seize any movable propertymortgaged to the bank as security for any loan,overdraft, advance or other accommodation inrespect of which default has been made..

6.Section 19 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words section 26, ofthe words section 26, and thereafter it shall not be competentfor the borrower or any person claiming through or under anydisposition whatsoever of the right, title or interest of theborrower to and in the property made or registered subsequentto the date of the mortgage to the bank, in any court to moveto invalidate the said resolution or the subsequent sale forany cause whatsoever, and no court shall entertain any suchapplication .

7.Section 20 of the principal enactment is herebyamended as follows :

(1) by the substitution in subsection (1) of that sectionfor the words and figures the provisions of sections17 and 19 shall apply, of the words and figures theprovisions of sections 17, 17A and 19 shall apply ;

Authorizationof person toseize movableproperty.

Amendment ofsection 19 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 20 of theprincipalenactment.

Insertion ofsection 17A in theprincipalenactment.

3Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)Act, No. 54 of 2000

(2) by the repeal of subsection (2) of that section andthe substitution of the following subsectiontherefor :

(2) (a) Where

(i) the borrower is dead ;

(ii) bank has been notified, in writingof his death within a period ofthree months of his death ; and

(iii) probate of his will or letters ofadministration to his estate havenot been issued,

the District Court of Colombo or theDistrict Court of the district in which thatproperty is situate or kept may, uponapplication made in that behalf by thebank and after service of notice of theapplication on such persons,if any, as thecourt may order, and if satisfied that thegrant of probate or the issue of the lettersof administration is likely to be undulydelayed, appoint a person to representthe estate of the borrower for thepurposes of this section.

(b) Where the borrower is dead and the bankhas been notified in writing of his deathwithin a period of three months of hisdeath, the board shall not take action asspecified in section 17 or section 17A orsection 19 unless and until arepresentative of his estate has beenappointed under this section..

4Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)Act, No. 54 of 2000

8.Section 21 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed and the following section substituted therefor :

21. Notice of every resolution under section19 authorizing the sale of any property shall bepublished, in addition to the Gazette, in threedaily newspapers in Sinhala, Tamil and Englishrespectively and copies of such notice shall besent to the borrower by registered post to theaddress furnished by him to the bank..

9.Section 22 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the repeal of paragraph (a) of that section andthe substitution of the following paragraph therefor :

(a) be sent to the borrower by registered post to theaddress furnished by him to the bank ;.

10.Section 27 of the principal enactment is herebyamended by the substitution for the words property is situateor kept, of the following :

property is situate or kept :

Provided however that where the borrower has madedefault in respect of any other loan, overdraft, advance oraccommodation granted to him by the bank, the board shall,in lieu of paying of such balance to the borrower or any personlegally entitled to accept the payments due to the borroweror depositing in court, as aforesaid, deposit such balance inthe District Court of the district in which the propertymortgaged as security for such other loan, overdraft, advanceor accommodation is kept or situate..

11.In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Replacement ofsection 21 of theprincipalenactment.Notice ofresolution ofBoard to sellmortgagedproperty.

Amendment ofsection 22 of theprincipalenactment.

Amendment ofsection 27 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

5Bank of Ceylon (Amendment)Act, No. 54 of 2000

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign),payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, NO. 32, TRANSWORKS HOUSE,LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.