PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON

| -
2nd Session 1957-58 Bus

Estate Bazaars (Compulsory
Acquisition) Act, No. 19
of 1958

Date of Assent: May 9, 1958

Printed on the Orders of Government
|
|

Printed at the GOVERNMENT Press, CEYLON. To be
purchased at the GOVERNMENT PuBLICATIONS BuREAU, COLOMBO
Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 25, payable in
advance to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS
Bureau, Post OFFICE Box 500, Secretariat, Colombo 1

Price: 15 cents Postage: 10 cents


Estate Bazaars (Compulsory Acquisition) 3
Act, No. 19 of 1958

aL. D.—O. 75/57.

ACT TO REQUIRE AN INTENDED SALE OF THE WHOLE
OR ANY PART OF AN ESTATE BAZAAR TO BE NOTIFIED
BY THE PROSPECTIVE VENDOR TO THE LAND
CoMMISSIONER; AND TO ENABLE THE COMPULSORY
ACQUISITION BY THE CROWN OF ANY ESTATE BAZAAR.
AND THE IMPROVEMENT, DEVELOPMENT, LEASE, SALE
OR ALIENATION OTHERWISE OF THE WHOLE OR ANY
PART OF ANY SUCH BAZAAR WHICH IS ACQUIRED BY

THE CROWN.

rN

[Date of Assent: May 9, 1958]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty.
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and
the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present
Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same. as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Estate Bazaars
(Compulsory Acquisition) Act, No. 19 of 1958.

2. (1) An intended sale of the whole or any part
of an estate bazaar shall be notified in writing to the
Land Commissioner by the prospective vendor at least
three months before the date of such sale. Where the
- jntendecl sale is in execution of the decree of a court,
the judgment-creditor shall be deemed to be the pros-
pective vendor for the purposes of this sub-section.

(2) A sale of the whole or any part of an estate
bazaar without compliance with the provisions of
sub-section (1) shall be null and void.

(3) This section shall not apply in cases where prior
to the coming into force of this Act,—

(a) a contract has been entered into between the
proprietor of an estate and the purchaser
of a building in the bazaar area of that
estate ‘to purchase such building, and

(b) not less than ten per centum of the purchase
price for such purchase has already been
paid.

8. (1) The Minister may decide that any estate
bazaar shall be acquired by the Crown in the public
interest. Where the Minister so decides, the decision
shall be publishec in the Gazette.

~~~ NLR 214b-2.775 (1/58)

Short titie.

Intended sale
of the whol:
or apy part
of any estate
bazaar to be
notified te

the Land

Commissioner.

Compulsoz7
acquisitio2
of estate
bazaars,


Modification of
Land Acquisition
Act, No. 9 of
1950, in its
application

to acquisition
of an estate
Dazaar.

4 Estate Bazaars (Compulsory Acquisition)
Act, No. 19 of 1958

(2) Where a decision of the Minister under sth:
section (1) is published in the Gazette, the estat,
hazaar to which that decision relates shall. for ¢h,
purpose of the application of the Land Acquisitign
Act, No 9 of 1950, be deemed to be land require
for a public purpose and may accordingly be acquire
under that Act. Hind

4. The Land Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, shall,
in its application for the purpose of the acquisition of.
any estate bazaar, have eflect— Mis:

(1) as if section 41 of that Act were not in force;

(2) as if for section 42 of that Act there were.
substituted the following section : — ha

tt

= aeebement iol 42. The amount of compensation to
SOTr $ . : * te
Ne be paid under this Act to any person.

interested in a land shall— td

(a) where the annual value of that:
land is assessed for the pur.
poses of any rates levied by
any local authority under any
written law, be equal to ten
times the annual value of that
land as assessed for the rates:
payable for the vear preced-
ing that in which the decision.
to acquire that land under
this Act was published in the
Gazette. and |

(b) where the annual value of that
land has not been assessed for
the purposes of any rates 90,
levied, be equal to ten times
the reasonable annual rental.
value of that land as deter-:
mined by ;the acquiring:
officer, | :

and shall be proportionate to his interest
in that land. No additional compensa:
tion shall be allowed to him in com
sideration of the compulsory nature 0
the acquisition.’’; and a
(3) as if section 43 and section 44 of that Ach:
were not in force. ,


Estate Bazaars (Compulsory Acquisition) 5
Act, No. 19 of 1958

5. (1) Where an Order under section 36 of the
Land Acquisition Act, No. 9 of 1950, in respect of an
estate bazaar is published in the Gazette, and posses-
‘sion of that bazaar has been taken for and on behalf of
Her Majesty, a competent authority may, subject to
such directions as may be given by the Minister under
sub-section (3), demolish, construct or reconstruct any
buildings in, and otherwise improve or develop, that
bazaar, and lease or sell, or alienate under a rent-

urchase scheme, the whole or any part of that bazaar,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Crown
Lands Ordinance, No. 8 of 1947.

(2) An instrument of disposition whereby the whole
or any part of any such estate bazaar as has become
Crown property is leased, sold or otherwise alienated
shall be signed and executed by a competent authority,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Crown
Lands Ordinance, No. 8 of 1947.

(3) The Minister may give general or special diret-
tions to a competent authority in regard to the exercise
of the powers of such competent authority under sub-
section (1).

6. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires, —
‘competent authority’’ means any officer

appointed as a competent authority for the
purposes of this Act by the Minister hv
notification published in the Gazette;

‘‘ estate ’’ means any land or group of lands,
whether cultivated or uncultivated, which
is not less than twenty acres in extent and
which forms a separate. and distinct
property, but does not include any property
an application for the transfer of owner-
ship of which has been made under section
11 of the Tea and Rubber Estates (Control
of Fragmentation) Act, No. 2 of 1958;

‘* estate bazaar ’’ means a land on which there are
contiguous shops or commercial buildings
and which abuts on a road belonging ta,
or passing through, or forming a boundary
or part of a boundary of, an estate, and
includes such shops or buildings; and

‘‘ local authority ’’ means any Municipal Council,
Urban Council, ‘own Council or Village
Committee.

iS)

Subject to
directions of
the Minister,
competent
authority

to improve,
develop, or
dispose of
property
acquired in
pursuance of
this Act.

Tuterpretation.
