PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON .
2nd Session 1957-58 Sis
5 1G. sue
oy
. ASRS,
(«
(eae)
Bound
A io
Port (Cargo) Corporation
Act, No. 13 of 1958
Date of Assent : May 7. 1958
Printed om the Orders of Government
a ee
ed Le ate oes; Cama
nat Scbowiton (acing BU) Be 28, peat
Genet taco 2a PEL Mae 2 eras
Bureau, Post Orrice Bor 6500, Secretariat, Colombo 1
Price: Re. 1. Postage: 35 cents. ‘


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 0f'1958 3

¥p, DO. 62/57.

‘Aw Ac? TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A COR-
PORATION FOR THE PROVISION OF CERTAIN SERVICES
in THE Port oF COLOMBO AND IN SUCH OTHER PORTS
{AS MAY BE DETERMINED BY THE MINISTER BY ORDER
PUBLISHED IN THE Gazette; TO ENABLE THR COM-
PULSORY ACQUISITION OR REQUISITION FOR SUCH
CORPORATION OF ANY IMMOVABLE OR MOVABLE PRO-
PERTY REQUIRED FOR THE PURPOSES OF SUCH COR-
PORATION; AND TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE TERMI-
NATION OF THE BUSINESS OF PORT ENTREPRENEURS
AND FOR PURPOSES CONNECTED WITH THE MATTERS
AFORESAID.

[Date of Assent: May 7, 1958]

BI it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the

same, as follows:—

1. This Act may be cited as the Port (Cargo) Sbor title

Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1938

PART I. i

ConstiTUTION, POWERS AND DUTIES OF TRE Port

(Canco) Corporation AND rs Boarp oF ‘Drrecrors.

2, (1) There shall be established a! Corporation Establishment
which shall be called the “ Port (Cargo) Corporation ” ghpert (Care
(hereinafter referred to as “‘ the Corporation ””) and
which shall consist of the persons who are for the time
being members of the Corporation under section 3.

2) The Corporation shall by the name assigned to

it by sub-section (1) be a body corporate and shall have
perpetual succession and a common seal and inay sue
and be sued in such name.

tend, XR 21000-8085 88)


4 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958
Moab ofte 3,‘ The members of the Board of Directors shall be

the members of the Corporation. :
Saget ety 4% (1) It shall be the general duty of the
Corporation. Corporation—

(a) to provide in the Port of Colombo and in any"
other port that may be determined by the
Minister by Order published in the Gazette
efficient and regular services (hereinafter
referred to as “* port services "?) for stevedor-
ing, landing and warehousing cargo, wharf-
age, the supply of water and the bunkering
of coal and any other services incidental
thereto; and

(0) subject to the provisions of sub-section (2). to
conduct the business of the Corporation in
such manner, and to make in accordance with
the provisions of this Act such charges for
services rendered by the Corporation, as will
secure that the revenue of the Corporation is
not less than sufficient for meeting the charges
which are proper to be made to the revenue of
the Corporation, and for establishing and
maintaining an adequate general reserve.

(2) Where the Minister, after consultation with
the Board of Directors, is satisfied that the Cor-
poration will be unable, during any period reckoned
from the date of commencement of its business. to per-
form the duty imposed on the Corporation by para-
graph (b) of sub-section (1) by reason only of the heavy
initial expenditure that will have to be incurred by the
Corporation in first commencing and carrying on its
business, the Minister may, by Order published in the
Gazette, exempt the Corporation during that period.
from the provisions of that paragraph.

(8) Nothing in this section shall be construed as
imposing on the Corporation, either directly or
indirectly, any form of duty or liability enforceable by
proceedings before any court or tribunal to which the
Corporation would not otherwise be subject.


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 5
} 8. (1) The Corporation may exercise all or any of owers ot we
ithe following powers:— Coxgarioas

(a) to acquire, hold, take or give on lease or hire,
mortgage, pledge and sell or otherwise dispose
of any immovable or movable property ;

{0) to employ such officers and servants as may be
necessary for carrying out the work of the
Corporation;

(c) to do anything for the pene of advancing the
skill of persons employed by the Corporation
or the efficiency of the equipment of the Cor-
poration or the manner in Which that equip-

: nent is operated, including the provision by
the Corporation, and the assistance of the
provision by others, of facilities for training
persons required to carry out the work of the
Corporation;

(a) to establish a provident fund, and provide wel-
fare and recreational facilities, houses,
hostels and other like accommodation for
persons employed by the Corporation ;

(e) to construct, manufacture, purchase, maintain
and repair anything required for the purpose
of the business of the Corporation;

(f) to delegate to any officer of the Corporation any
such function of the Corporation as the Cor-
poration may consider necessary so to dele-
gate for the efficient transaction of business:

i

(g) to enter into and perform ali such contracts as
may be necessary for the beriormance of the
duties and the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation;

(4) to make rules in relation to its officers and ser-
vants, including their appointment, promo-
tion, remuneration, disciplinary control, con-
duct and the grant of leave to them;

(@) to make rules in Solee of the administration
of the affairs of the Corporation; and

@) to do all other things which, in the opinion of
the Corporation, are necessary to facilitate
the proper carrying on of ite business.


4
6 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958

(2) ber a in the preceding provisions of this
section shall be construed as authorising the disregard
by the Corporation of any law for the time being in
foree.

Bowers of 6. (1) The Minister may, after consultation with
fie Miniter ‘the Board of Directors, give such Board general or
ecu, special directions in writing as to the performance of
i the duties and the exercise of the powers of the Cor.
poration, and such Board shall give effect to such

directions.

(2) The Minister may, from time to time, direct
in writing the Board of Directors to furnish to him,
in such form as he may require, returns, accounts and
other information with respect to the property and
business of the Corporation, and such Board’ shall
carry out every such direction.

(3) The Minister may from time to time order all
or any of the activities of the Corporation to be
investigated and reported upon by such person or
persons as he may specify, and, upon such order
being made, the Board of Directors shall afford all,
such facilities, and furnish all such information, as,
may be necessary to carry out the order. ;

Bosal 7. (1) The Corporation shall have a Board of
Directors consisting of five members appointed by the
Minister, one of whom shall be an officer of the
General Treasury. .

(2) A person shall be disqualified for being.

appointed or continuing as a Director—

(a) if he is a Senator or a Member of Parliament;

or | >
!
(0) if he is,an employee of the Corporation, oF
(©) if he, directly or indirectly, by himself or by,
any’ person on his behali or for his use of;
benefit, holds or enjoys any right or beneft

, under any contract made by or on behalf o:

the Corporation, or 3

(@) if he has any such financial or other interest
is likely to affect prejudicially the discharg
by Lim of his functions as a Director.


* Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 7 :

1(3) Where a Director is, by reason of illness or

ther infirmity or absence from Ceylon, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, then, if he
fe not the Director who is an officer of the General
‘Treasury, the Minister may appoint any person to act
jp his place, and, if he is the Director who is
in officer of the General Treasury, the Minister may
appoint an officer of the General ‘Treasury to act in
his place.
(4) The Minister may, without assigning a reason,
remove any Director from office. ‘The removal of any
Director from office by the Minister shall not be called
jn question in any court.

(8) A Director who is not a public officer may
resign the office of Director by letter addressed to the
Minister.

(6) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (4) and
sub-section (5), the term of office of a Director shall
be three years:

Provided that a Director appointed in place of a.

Director who dies or resigns or otherwise vacates
Tiles shall, unless he earlier resigns or otherwise
vacates office, hold office for the unexpired part of the
term of office of the Director whom he succeeds.

8, All or any of the Directors may be paid such  Remuceration
remuneration, out of the funds of the Corporation, as % P**™
may be determived by the Minister.

59. A Director who is directly or indirectly Direcor te
interested inja contract proposed to be made by the fitcrest ih
Corporation shall disclose the nature of his interest costrct
at a meeting of the Board of Directors. The dis- {mss ‘°
~ dosnre shall be recorded in the minutes of such Board, by te
and such Director shall not take part in any delibera- “tes
tion or decision of such Board with respect to such |
contract. | |

40, The quorum for any meeting of the Board of quorum tor

Directors shall be three. 6 Ste, a
Diretoe

41. Subject to the other provisions of this Act, Regulation of
the Board of Directors may regulate the procedure "="
in regard to the meetings of such Board and the
transaction of business at such meetings.


8 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958

Board of 42. The Board of Directors may act notwitt
2isget, = standing a vacancy among the members thereof.“
‘aeanes.

Board of 43, The Board of Directors shall administer thy
Directors to : ,

Piro, affairs, may exercise the powers, and shall perfor
xisiz of tee the duties, of the Corporation. :
Delegation of 4%. (1) The Board of Directors may delegate tj
See of any Director or employee of such Board any of it,
Board of powers and duties.

(2) Every delegate appointed under sub-section {1)
shall exercise or perform the power or duty delegate
to him subject to the general or special directions of
the Board of Directors.

Qeeigan sod 48. (1) The Minister shall appoint a Chairman
Hegchaimes and may appoint a Vice-Chairman of the Board of
Directors Directors from among the Directors.

(2) If the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman is, by
reason of illness or other infirmity or absence from
Ceylon, temporarily unable to perform the duties of!
his office, the Minister may appoint one of the
Directors to act in his place.-

(3) The Minister may, without assigning a reason,
terminate the appointment of the Chairman or Vice
Chairman, The termination of the appointment of
the Chairman or Vice-Chairman shall not be calted
in question in any court. | H

- (4) Where the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman is
not a public officer, he may resign the office of such.
Chairman or Vice-Chairman by letter addressed to
the Minister. | 2
\ .

(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (8), and
sub-section (4), the term of office of the Chairia
shall be the period of his membership of the Board of
Directors and the term of office of the Vice-Chairman
shall be the period of his membership of such Board.

fel of toe 16. (1) The seal of the Corporation shall be in the
™ custody of the Board of Directors.


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 0f 1958 9

@) The seal of the Corporation may be altered in
Zach manner as may be determined by the Board of
Directors.

__ 8) The seal of the Corporation shall not be affixed
‘jo any instrument or document except in the presence
of two members of the Board of Directors both of whom
shall sign the instrument or document in token of their
presence

PART II.

FInance.

47. (1) The Board of Directors may, with the con- _Borrovieg
sent of the Minister, or in accordance with the terms fre"Sotra ot
‘of any general authority given by him, borrow tem-  Direor.
porarily, by way of overdraft or otherwise, such sums
as the Board may require for meeting the obligations
‘of the Corporation or discharging its duties under this
Act.

Provided that the aggregate of the amounts out-
standing in respect of any temporary loans raised by
the Board of Directors under this sub-section shall not
at any time exceed such sum as may be determined by
the Minister in consultation with the Minister
of Finance.

(2) The Board of Directors may, with the consent
gi the Minister given with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance; borrow money, otherwise than
by way of a temporary loan under sub-section (1), for
all or any of the following purposes: —

(a) the provision of working capital;

(0) the provision! of money for meeting any

expenses ingurred in connection with any per-

. manent work or other thing the cost of which
is properly' chargeable to capital ;

(c) the provision of money required for the payment
of any compensation under this Act which is
payable in cash by the Corporation;

(@ the redemption of any stock issued or any loan
raised by the Board of Directors; and


10 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958
(e) any other purpose for which capital moneys arg
@ Sproperly applicable, including the repaymenj
‘of any money temporarily borrowed under
sub-section (1).

(3) The Board of Directors may, with the consent of
the Minister given with the concurrence of the Minis.
ter of Finance, borrow money for any of the purposes
mentioned in sub-section (2) by the issue of stock under
section 19 or in any other manner whatsoever.

Josestiments 18. Any funds of the Corporation which are not

of fonds of immediately required for the purposes of the business

Cerporstion. of the Corporation may be invested by the Board of
Directors in such manner as such Board may deter.
mine with the approval of the Minister.

Port (Cargo) 19. (1) The Board of Directors—

Corporation

Stock. (a) may create and issue any stock required for the

. purpose of exercising the powers of the Board
under sub-section (3) of section 17, and
(0) shall create and issue such stock as is require
for the purpose of satisfying any right to
compensation under this Act which is to be
satisfied by the issue of stock,
and the stock so created and issued is in this Act
referred to as‘ Port (Cargo) Corporation Stock "’.

(2) Port (Cargo) Corporation Stock shall be issued,
transferred, dealt with. redeemed and cancelled in
aceordance With such terms as may be determined by
the Board of Directors with the approval of the Minis-
ter_given with the concurrence of the Minister

: of Finance. i ¥
Goverament 20. (1) The Minister of Finance shall guarantee
sgueeanies. the repayment of the principal of, and the payment of

the interest on, any Port (Cargo) Corporation Stock
created and issued under section 19 (1) (b), and may,
with the concurrence of the Minister, guarantee the
repayment of the principal of, and the payment of the
interest on, any Port (Cargo) Corporation Stock
created and issued under section 19 (1) (a).

(2) Any sum required for the fulfilment of a guar-
autee provided under sub-section (1) may, with the
prior approval of the House of Representatives, be
paid out of the Consolidated Fund of Ceylon.

(3) Any sum paid out of the Consolidated Fund of
Ceylon in fulfilment of a guarantee provided under
sub-section (1) shall be repaid, together with interest


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, Nb. 13 of 1958 11
jifereon, at such rate as the Minister of Finance may
fetermine with the concurrence of the Minister, by the
Gorporation in such manner and over such period as
fhe Minister of Finance may with such concurrence
determine.
of (&) Immediately after a guarantee is given under
gab-section (1), the Minister of Finance shall lay a
gatement of the guarantee before the Senate and the
House of Representatives.

(6) Where any sum is paid out of the Consolidated
Fund of Ceylon'in fulfilment of a guarantee provided
under sub-section (1), the Minister of Finance shall
forthwith lay before the Senate and the House of
Representatives a statement that such sum has been
so paid.

21. The revenue of the Corporation in any year Application
shall be applied in defraying the following charges in Siete
the order of priority set out hereunder :— * ihe

(a) the working and establishment expenses (includ-

ing allocations to the insurance reserve and
depreciation reserve), in connection with the
exercise and performance of the powers and
duties of the Corporation, properly charge
able to revenue account ;

(b) the interest on any temporary Joan raised by

the Corporation ;

(2) any sums required to be transferred to any

. sinking fund or redemption fund ; and

(@) the interest on and the repayment of the

principal of any Government loan to the

Corporation j

+ 22, (1) The Board of Directors— Reserves.

(a) may establish and maintain an_ insurance

reserve to cover the insurance of the movable

and immovable property|of the Corporation ;
and |

(b) shall establish and maintain—

(i) a depreciation reserve to cover the
depreciation of the movable and
immovable property of the Corpora-
tion, and

(ii) a general reserve not exceeding such
‘amount as may from time to time be
determined by the Minister.


12 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958

(2) Such amount out of the surplus of the revep,

. of the Corporation in any year remaining after {t
charges mentioned in section 21 have been satisfied,
can be paid to the general reserve without causing j
to exceed the amount determined by the Minisis
‘under paragraph (b) (ii) of sub-section (1) shall
paid to that reserve and the balance, if any, of sua
surplus shall be paid to the Deputy Secretary to th
Treasury to be credited to the Consolidated Fund
Ceylon. :

hase 28. (1) ‘The Board of Directors shall cause prope

and audit of accounts of the income and expenditure of the
Corporation and of all its other transactions to by
kept and shall prepare an annual statement of
accounts and statistics relating to the business of the
Corporation in such form and containing such
particulars as the Minister with the concurrence of
the Minister of Finance may from time to time
specify.

(2) The accounts of the Corporation for each
financial year shall be audited by the Auditor-General.
For the purposes of assisting him in the audit of suck
accounts, the Auditor-General may einploy the
services of any qualified auditor or auditors who shall
act under his direction and control.

(3) For the purpose of meeting the expenses
incurred by him in the audit of the accounts of the
Corporation, the Auditor-General shall be paid by the
Corporation such remuneration as the Minister may:
determine with the concurrence of the Minister of
Finance. Any remuneration received from the
Corporation by the Auditor-General shall, after
deducting any sums paid by him to any qualified
auditor employed by him for the yurpose of such
audit, be credited to the Consolidated | Fund of Ceylon.

(4) The Auditor-General shall examine the
accounts of the Corporation and furnish a report—

(a) stating whether he has or has not obtained all

the information and explanations required
by him;

(0) stating whether the accounts referred to in the

report are properly drawn up so as to exhibit
a true and fair view of the affairs of
the Corporation; and


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 10 x
(¢) drawing attention to any item in the accounts
which in his opinion may be of interest to
the Senate and the House of Representatives
in any examination of the activities and
accounts of the Corporation.
(6) The Auditor-General shall transmit his report
to the Board of Directors.
2 (6) For the purpose of this section, the expression
{qualified auditor” means any person who is
registered as an auditor under the Companies
Ordinance, No. 51 of 1938.
i
“28. The Auditor-General and any person assisting Powers of ‘the
the Auditor-General shall have adcess to all such Aettee Genel
books, deeds, contracts, accounts, vouchers and other — dsstente
documents of the Corporation as the Auditor-General
may consider necessary for the purposes of the audit,
ind shall be furnished by the Directors and officers
of the Corporation with such information within their
knowledge as may be required for such purposes.
25. (1) The Board of Directors shall, as soon as Report of the
sible after the end of each financial year of the Ba",
Forporation, make to the Minister a report on the copies af
exercise and performance by such Board of its powers Auster,
amd duties during that year and on its policy and  feyort s0
programme. Such report for any year shall set out  ststement, of
any direction given by the Minister to the Board of statistics to
Directors during that year, unless the Minister has ¥,#ent to the
notified to such Board his opinion that it is against sid before
the interests of national security to do so. The th fepste
Minister shall lay a copy of such report before the ; House ot
Senate and the House of "Representatives. tetera
i * ach eports
(2) The Board of Directors shall, on receipt of the sad statistics
Anditor-General’s report in each year, transmit to: {p28
the Minister— ier
) a copy of such report, and i
(0) a copy of the statement of accounts and |
I statistics prepared under section 23 (1)
(3) The Minister shall lay copies of the report and
statement referred to in sub-section (2) before the
Senate and the House of Representatives.
(4) The Board of Directors shall cause copies of
the report of such Board and of the Auditor-General’s
report and statement of accounts and statistics


14 Port (Cargb) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958
referred to in sub-section (2), to be printed atag
expense of the Corporation and to be made availayy
for purchase by the public at such price as shall.
determined by such Board.
PART III.
CoMMENCEMENT OF BUSINESS BY, AND ACQUISITION Ay
REQUISITION OF PROPERTY FOR, THE CORPORATION, |
Dale on and 26. (1) The Minister shall, after consultation wig
ate weet the Board of Directors, by Order published in th:
serees're Gazette, declare that, on and after such date as shal,
ty bo be specified in the Order, the port services referrg
Comperaion. to in section 4 shall be provided in the Port of Colomby
exclusively by the Corporation.
(2) Where by Order of the Minister under sectioy
4 (1) (a) any port other than the Port of Colombo is
determined as a port in which the port servics
referred to in that section shall be provided by ths
Corporation, the Minister shall, after consultati,
with the Board of Directors, by Order published ia
the Gazette, declare that, on and after such date a
shall be specified in the Order, the aforesaid port
services shall be provided exclusively by the
Corporation in the port so determined. A
(8) The date specified in an Order made under sub-
section (1) or sub-section (2) as the date on and after
which the port services referred to in section + shall
be provided exclusively by the Corporation in any port
specified in that Order may, before that date expires,
be altered by the Minister, after consultation with the
Board of Directors, by Order published in the Gazette:
‘Termination of 27. (1) On the date specified in an Order made
susess of and published under sub-section (1) of section 26 as
Toirepreneurs, the date on and after which the port services referred
to in section 4 shall be provided in the Port of Colombo
exclusively by the Corporation, every such licence
granted under the regulations made under the Port
of Colombo (Administration) Act, No. 10 of 1950, a8
authorises the carrying on of an undertaking for pro-
viding in the Port of Colombo any of the port services
referred to in section 4 shall cease to be in force
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in such
regulations and such Act.
(2) Where an Order under sub-section (2) of section
26 is made specifying a date on and after which the
port services referred to in section 4 shall be provided


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 15
Yxolusively by the Corporation in any port specified

fn that Order, every port entrepreneur in that port
{hall cease to be such entrepreneur on and after that
date.

(3) No person shall be entitled to compensation for
‘any loss incurred by him, whether directly or
“indireetly, by reason of the fact that any licence
referred to in sub-section (1) ceases to be in force by
virtue of that sub-section or by reason of the fact that
a port entrepreneur has ceased to be such entrepreneur
by virtue of sub-section (2).

28. (1) A port entrepreneur who is the holder of Duty of
a licence referred to in sub-section (1) of section 97 sit pon
shall carry on the undertaking specified in such licence fe errs om
until such licence ceases to be in force by virtue of that {S89
aibection. io

(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of mb ia
sub-section (1) shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate.
be liable to imprisonment of either description for a
period not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment
and fine.

29. (1) Any officer of the Corporation who is otis of
authorised in that behalf by the Chairman of the Board $2!2,¢%,.
of Directors may, by notice (hereafter in this Act
referred to as a‘* notice of claim ”’) sent by registere:]
post to the address; of a port entrepreneur, declare
that such movable o} immovable property, other than
money, as has been used or is intended to be used. by
such entrepreneur for the purpose of the undertakine
carried on by him as such entrepreneur is required
for the purposes of the Corporation. Such property
is hereafter in this Act referred to as “notified

(2) Where a notice of claim is sent under sub-section
(1), any officer of the Corporation authorised in that
behalf by the Chairman of the Board of Directors may
from time to time, by notice (hereafter in this Act
referved to as a “ notice of disclaimer ””) sent in like
manner as the notice of claim, disclaim the need, for
the purposes of the Corporation, of any property
referred to in the notice of claim and specified in the
notice of disclaimer


! a 16 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958

(8) No person shall alienate to any person other than,

the Corporation— Fel i a
(a) any property which is specified in a notice of
tf “akin and is not disclaimed by @ notice of

disclaimer, or <

(0) any rights in respect of that property;
and any alienation of that property or those rights to
any person other than the Corporation shall be null
and void.

(4) Any person shall, if requested by any officer of
the Corporation so to do, furnish to such person as.
shall be specified in the request information with
regard to any such matter within his Jnowiedge relat-
ing to any movable or immovable property referred to-
in 2 notice of claim as shall be so specified.

@ Any person who fails to furnish the information
referred to in sub-section (4), or who wilfully with-
holds all or any part of such information, or who
furnishes information knowing such information to be
false, or who wilfully or negligently destroys or
damages or causes to be destroyed or damaged any
notified property shall be guilty of an offence and shall,
on conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
be liable to imprisonment of either description for a.
period not exceeding one year or to a fine not exceed-
ing one thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment.
and fine.

‘Report on 30. The Chairman of the Board of Directors may—
golden, (a) cause a report to be prepared as to the condi-
dotted tion of any notified property ;,
eb. (>) cause a copy of such report to be sent by
i registered pe to the person’ to whom the
notice of claim in respect of such property
5 was sent ; and
(©) require such person to notify in writing such
i Shairman whether or not such person is in
! agreement with such report ahdFit he is not
| in agreement, to specify qny objections
he may have and the grounds’ of such objec-
j tions and to produce all docuthents relied on
by him in support of such objections.
Cesapulsory 31. (1) The Minister may, by Order (hereaiter in
za this Act referred to as a “vesting Order”)
property for published in the Gazette and sent by registered post
oe to a port entrepreneur, vest in the Corporation, with
eting Order effect from such date as shall be specifiec in the Order,
Misieter,


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 17

say notified property which has not been disclaimed
{2 ‘notice of disclaimer and which has been used or
bh intended to be used by such entrepreneur for the
Jarpose of the undertaking carried on by him as such
citrepreneur.
JQ) Before a vesting Order takes effect, the
Minister may from time to time, after consultation
sath the Board of Directors, alter, by Order published
ih the Gazette and sent. by registered post, to the
person. to whom such vesting Order was sent, the date
fn which such vesting Order takes effect.

(8) A vesting Order shall have the effect of giving
the Corporation absolute title to any property

ecified in the Order with effect from the date specified
fherein and free from all encumbrances.

2 32 (1) The Minister may, by Order (hereafter in Requisitioniog
this Act referred to as a “ requisitioning Order”) chimgosble
published in the Gazette and sent by registered post property.

fo @ port entrepreneur, requisition, with effect, from

such date as shall be specified in the Order, any

notified property which is immovable property and

which has been used or was intended to be used by

such entrepreneur for the purpose of the undertaking

carried on by him as such entrepreneur, in order that

it may be temporarily used by the Corporation for the

purposes of its business.

(2) Before a requisitioning Order takes effect the
Minister may from time to time, after consultation
with the Board of Directors, alter, by Order published
inthe Gazette and sent by registered post to the
person to whom such requisitioning Order was sent,
the date on which such requisitioning Order takes
effect. i

(8) A requisitioning Order shall have the effect of
authorising’ the Corporation, ‘with effect from. the
date specified in the Order, to take possession of the
property specified in the Order; and to use such
property temporarily for the purposes of the business
of the Corporation. |

(4) Where any property is requisitioned by a
requisitioning Order, the Minister’ may, by Order
(tereafter in this Act referred to as a “ derequisi-
tioning Order”) published in the Gazette and sent
by registered post to the person to whom such
Tequisitioning Order was sent, derequisition such
Property with effect from such date as shall. be
specified in the derequisitioning Order.
27. 808 4/8)


“he + 3
18 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958

(5) Before a derequisitioning Order takes effect, th:
Minister may from time to time, after consultatio,
with the Board of Directors, alter, by Order prblisha
in the Gazette and sent by registered post to the person
to whom such derequisitioning Order was sent, the
date on which such derequisitioning Order take,
effect.

(6) Where, immediately before the date on which
any property is requisitioned for the Corporation,
person, other than the owner of such property, way
entitled to possession of such property under the terms
of any lease, that lease shall be deemed for all purpose,
to have expired on that date. ;

Ccompuleory 33. Where it is found that any property requisi
scaustiog &€ tioned for the Corporation is permanently required
feeverty tor for the purpose of the business of the Corporation,
‘be Comemtion such property may be vested in the Corporation by «
Order "under vesting Order under section 31.

‘akiog 34. (1) Any officer of the Corporation authorised
ronefce of, in that behalf by the Chairman of the Board of
cote Directors may, for and on behalf of the Corporation,
semigtisnet ‘take possession of any property vested in or requisi
Corporation. tioned for the Corporation.

(2) Any officer referred to in sub-section (1) shall,
by notice in writing given to the person in possession
of any property vested in or requisitioned for the
Corporation, — .

(a), inform such person that such officer intends ta

| take possession of such property for and o

| behalf of the Corporation on such date and
at such time and place as shall be specified
in the notice, and

(b) require such person or his authorised agent to

| be present on the date and at the time and
place so specified, and to allow and assist
such officer to take possession of such
property for and on behalf of the
Corporation.

(3) A notice required to be given to any person
under the preceding provisions of this section shall
be deemed to be given to him if it is sent to him by
registered post.

(4) Any person who fails to comply with aay
requ.rement of a notice given to him under this sectio?
shal! be guilty of an offence and shall, on convictioa


Port(Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 19 4
‘after summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to
Jjmprisonment of either description for a period not
exceeding one year or to a fine not exceedin,
‘Gne thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment and
fine.
35. (1) Every person who prevents or obstructs Prevention of,
any person from or in taking possession, under “merit
“rection 34, of any property for and on behalf of the powew o |
Corporation shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on FP" for 4, |
conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate, the Corporation. |
te liable to imprisonment of either description for a H
period not exceeding one year or to a fine not
exceeding one thousand rupees or to both such
imprisonment and fine.
(2) Where an officer authorised under section 34
to take possession of any property for and on behalf
of the Corporation is unétie or apprehends that he |
will be unable to take possession of such property :
‘because of any obstruction or resistance that on been
or is likely to be offered, he shall, on his making an
application in that behalf to the Magistrate's Court
having jurisdiction over the place where that property i
is kept or situated, be entitled to an order of the court i
directing the Fiscal to deliver possession of that |
property to him for and on behalf of the Corporation. i
(3) Where an order under sub-section (2) is issued
to the Fiscal by a Magistrate’s Court, he shall forth- ‘
with execute that order and shall in writing report to
the Court the manner in which that order was executed
(4) For the purpose of executing an order issued by
a Magistrate’s Court under sub-section (2), the Fiscal
‘or any person acting under his direction may use such
force as may be necessary to enter any place where any
movable property to which that order relates is kept
and seize such movable property, or to enter any land,
building or other structure to which that order relates
and to eject any person in occupation thereof, and to
deliver possession of such movable property, land,
‘nilding or other structure to the person who is autho-
tised to take possession thereof for and on behalf of the
Corporation. ;
36. (1) Where any immovable property, other than Acquisition
any notified property, is required to be acquired for immovable :
the purpose of the business of the Corporation and the Ender the Land
Minister, by Order published in the Gazette, approves — cauisition
°f the proposed acquisition, that property hall be Caxporstion.


20 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. Le of 900
a deemed to be required for a, public purpose and may
accordingly be acquired under the Land Acquisition
‘Act, No. 9 of 1950, and be transferred to the Cor,
poration.
_ (2) Any sum payable for the acquisition of any
immovable property under the Land Acquisition Act,
No. 9 of 1080, for the Corporation shall be paid by the
Corporation.
Speci grant 37. Where any immovable property of the Crow,
Grove’ poperty is required for the purpose of the business of the Cor-
toe poration, such purpose shall be deemed to be a pur.
‘rene pose for which a special grant or lease of such property
may be made under section 6 of the Crown Lands Ordi-
nance, No. 8 of 1947, and accordingly the provisions
of that Ordinance shail apply to a special grant or lease
of such property to the Corporation.
Power to 38, (1) The Chairman of the Board of Directors
‘Diormatian or any officer of the Corporation authorised in that
sudito'\_bebalf by such Chairman may direct a port entre.
rec te. reneur to furnish to such Chairman or such officer
any such information, returns, statements or statistics
as shull be indicated ‘in the direction and shall relate
to the undertaking carried on by him as such entre-
preneur,

(2) The Chairman of the Board of Directors or any
person anthorised in that behalf by such Chairman
may—

(a) inspect any movable or immovable property used
or intended to be used by a port entrepreneur.
for the purpose of the undertaking carried

« on by him as such entrepreneur, and

(b) examine any books or other records maintained
for such purpose and take copies of all or any
of the entries in such books or records.

(3) The Chairman of the Board of Directors or any
person authorised in that behalf by such Chairman
may direct any person who has the custody of the books
of accounts for the years 1957 and 1958 relating to an
undertaking carried on under a licence referred to in
section 27—

(a) to produce those books for inspection by, and

(0) if necessary, to deliver those books to the custody,
of,

such Chairman or such authorised person. :


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958 21
45) Any person who fails, without reasonable canse,
fo comply with a direction given under sub-section (1),
‘or: Who Turnishes information knowing such inform-
‘Sfjqn to be false, or who obstructs any other person in
che exercise of the powers conferred on that other
‘person by sub-section (2), or who fails, without reason-
“able cause, to comply with a direction given under sub-
%ection (3), shall be guilty of an offence and shall, on
‘conviction after summary trial before a Magistrate,
‘he liable to imprisonment of either description for a
‘period not exceeding one year, or to a fine not exceeding
"one thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and
‘fine.
PART IV.
ComPENsation.

39. In respect of any roperty vested in the Cor~ Goursatien
‘poration, the Corporation shall pay compensation Borat ol
assessed on the basis of the value of such property at tested in the
the time it was vested in the Corporation and as if Spaation br
this Act had not been passed. If there is no ready
market in Ceylon for such property, account shall be
taken of the original cost to the owner, the replacement
eost and the age and condition of such property in
assessing such value.

40. In respect of any property requisitioned for Compensation
the Corporation, the Corporation shall pay compen- i reve of
sation equal to the amount which might reasonably be fequsiioned
expected to be payable for the temporary use of such {,"..,
property.

44, The compensation payable in respect of any Date of
property shall be considered as accruing doe from the anscoaanat

late on which that property was vested in or requisi- of compensation.’
tioned for the Corporation.

42, Any compensation payable under this Act shall toterest o»
carry interest, as, from the date on which it accrues ‘™Pessstion.
due until payment, at such rate as may be determined |
by the Minister with the concurrence of the Minister of |
Finance. 1

43. The mode of payment of compensation shall be afote of =
determined by the Board of Directors with the appro. BY, ._
val of the Minister and the Minister of Finance.

44. (1) For the purpose of assessing the compensa- Valuation
tion payable under this Act, there shall be a Valua- Bad
tion Board or more than one Valuation Board accord- _sssssing
ing as the Minister may decide. compensation


22 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, N6. 13 of 1958

(2) The Minister shall determine the number of
members of each Valuation Board and shall appoint
the members for such term as he may decide. At leas
one of the members of such Board shall be a person with
judicial or legal experience. The Minister shalj
appoint as the Chairman of such Board a member
thereof who has the aforesaid experience.

(8) All or any of the members of a Valuation Boarg,
may be paid out of the funds of the Corporation suck
remuneration as the Minister may determine with the
concurrence of the Minister of Finance. ‘

Auessment and 45, (1) The Board of Directors shall refer to 2

itemization. Valuation Board the assessment of compensation
payable in respect of any property, and the Valuation
Board shall submit its assessment and recommenda-
tions to the Board of Directors.

(2) A Valuation Board shall, before making its
assessment of the compensation payable in respect of
any property, give the person from whom that property
was acquired or requisitioned for the Corporation an
opportunity to additce before such Board, by himself
or by a representative authorised by him in’ that behalf,
evidence with regard to the value of that property.

(8) The Board of Directors shall, after considering
the assessment of compensation and the recommenda-
tions made by a Valuation Board in respect of any
property, determine the amount of compensation pay-
able in respect of that Property and communicate the
decision in writing to the person from whom that pro-
perty was acquired or requisitioned for the
Corporation.

(4) The Board of Directors shall cause a notice to

: be published in the Gazette and in at least one English,
one Sinhala and one Tamil newspaper, specifying the
compensation that it proposes to pay in respect of any
property and inviting any person who had any right,
title or interest to or in that property immediately
before that property was vested in g requisitioned for
the Corporation and who claims any compensation in
respect of that property to communicate to the Chair-
man of the Board of Directors his claim in writing,
stating the nature and the basis thereof, before sad
date as shall be specified in the notice.

Payment of 46. (1) Where no claim to the compensation pay-
csipemsie. able in respect of any property is received in response 10
the notice under section 45 from any person other than
the person from whom that property was acquired or


| ‘port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958 23
isitioned for the Corporation, the Chairman of the
cau ot Dizectors shall eause such compensation, less
Sooum requixed by or under this Act to be deducted
‘Wrefrom, to be paid to the person from whom that
property Was s0 acquired or requisitioned.
HQ) Where any claim to compensation payable in
espeot of any property is received in response to the
Teneo under section 45 from any person other than
the person from whom that property was acquired or
equisitioned for the Corporation, then, if every such
Humant and the person from whom that property was
Gpacquired or requisitioned amicably agree in writ,
{hg as to the persons entitled to the compensation and
the apportionment of the compensation among them,
the Chairman of the Board of Directors shall cause the
compensation, less any sum required by or under this
‘Ket to be deducted therefrom, to be apportioned and
paid to such persons according to such agreement. If
thee is no such agreement, the ‘Chairman of the Board
of Directors shall cause the compensation, less any
fam required by or under this Act to be deducted there-
from, to be paid to any District Court or Court of
Requests according as the amount to be so paid
exceeds or does not exceed three hundred rupees, to
be drawn by the persons entitled thereto.

47, (1) Where a person is entitled to compensation Dedvetions
in respect of any property vested in or requisitioned {rr asation
forthe Corporation, the Board of Directors shall pay “™™™*°™
from the amount of such compensation the following
sums, if any, in the order of priority in which they are
specified below: —

(a) any sum certified by a Labour Tribunal consti-

‘tuted under this Act to the Chairman of the
Board of Directors to be due from such person
under section 55, section 56, or section 57;

(®) any sum certified under the hand of the Port
Commissioner to the Chairman of the Board
of Directors to be due from such person as
arrears of employers contributions to the
Provident Fund referred to in section 54;

(©) any sum certified under the hand of the Port
Commissioner to the Chairman of the Board
of Directors to be due to him from such
person 5

(@) any sum certified under the hand of the Com-
‘missioner of Income Tax to the Chairman of
the Board of Directors to be due from such
person as tax on income cr profits; and


i + 24 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 -=
| .
i (@) any sum certified under the hand of the Seog,
tary to the Treasury to the Chairman of th;

Board of Directors to be due from such pe

son to the Crown as compensation for th,

loss. of or any damage to any cargo of th

Crown while such cargo was in the custody

of such person or any employee or agent of

: such person. ‘

(2) The payment to be made by the Board of Ding
tors under sub-section (1) shall—

(@) in the case of a sum referred to in paragraph

(a) of that sub-section, be made to the Corpo.
ration if that payment is in respect of a
employee of the Corporation;

(0) in the case of a sum referred to in paragraph

(0) of that sub-section, be made to the Cor.
poration;
(¢) in the case of a sum referred to in paragraph
(c) of that sub-section, be made to the Port
Commissioner;

(@) in the case of a sum referred to in paragraph
(d) of that sub-section, be made to the Com.
missioner of Income Tax; and

(2) in the case of a sum referred to in paragraph

(2) of that sub-section, be made to the Secre-
tary to the Treasury.
api 48. Any person to whom the Board of Directors has
pied awarded compensation in respect of any property
Sfemintin Thay, if he ia dissatisied with the amount of the com
Directors pensation, prefer, within thirty days after the com-
renrdig’ | munication to him of the determination .of such
. compensation. Board in respect of such compensation, ai written
appeal, against such determination, specifying the
gronnds of appeal, to the Board of Review established
under this Act.
i
Board of 49. (1) For the purpose of hearing and decid-
Review ing appeals made under section 48, there shall be a
Board of Review. '

(2) The Minister shall determine the number of
members of the Board of Review and shail appoint
the members for such term as he may decide. At least
one of the members of such Board shall be a persot
with judicial or legal experience. ‘The Minister shall
appoint as the Chairman of such Board a membet
thereof who has the aforesaid experience,


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 25
48) All or any of the members of the Board of
‘Review may be paid, out of the funds of the Corpora-
zion, such remuneration as the Minister may deter-
gine With the concurrence of the Minister of Finance.

(4) The decision of the Board of Review on any
appeal made to it under section 48 shall be final and
conclusive and shall not be called in question in any
court. *

(6) The Board of Review shall, before making its
decision on any appeal made to it under section 48,

ive the appellant or a representative authorised by
fim in that behalf an epportnnity of being heard by
such Board in support of such appeal.
PART V.
EMPLoyeEs oF THE CORPORATION.

50. (1) At the request of the Board of Directors, Arpeistmest of
any officer in the public service may, with the consent 2n4 visser snd
of that officer and the Secretary to the Treasury, be servants of the
temporarily appointed to the staff of the Corporation meat Service”
for such period as may be determined by the Board with sod of ©
like consent or be permanently appointed to such staff. Suthoriy, to

2) The provisions of sub-section (2) of section 9 of Cayeatoa.
the Motor Transport Act, No. 48 of 1957, shall,
mutatis mutandis, apply in relation to any officer in the
public service who is temporarily appointed to the staff
of the Corporation, and the provisions of sub-section
(8) of the aforesaid section 9 shall, mutatis mutandis,
apply in relation to any officer in the :public service
‘who is permanently appointed to such statf.

(3) Where the Corporation employs any person who
has entered into a contract with the Government by
which he has agreed to serve the Government for a
‘specified period, any period of service to the Cor-
poration by that person shall be regai(ded as service
to the Government for the purpose of discharging the
obligations of such contract.

(4) At the request of the Board of Directors, any
officer or servant of the Local Government Service
‘Commission or any local authority may, with the con-
sent of that officer or servant and that Commission
or authority, as the case may be, be temporarily
appointed to the staff of the Corporation for such
period as may be determined by that Poard with like
consent, or be permanently appointed to that staff, on


28 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958

such terms and conditions, including those relating tj)
pension or provident fund rights, as may be agree
upon by that Board and that Commission or authority;

(5) Where any officer or servant of the Local Govern!
ment Service Commission or of any local authority
is temporarily appointed to the staff of the Cor.
poration, he shall! be subject to the same disciplinary
control as any other member of such staff.

Oftcers sna 51. All officers and servants of the Corporation

eeraniseftbe shall be deemed to be public servants within the mean.

deonei tobe ing and for the purposes of the Penal Code. !

publi sarvane

Bip 18.

Employwest by 52. (1) Every person who is a qualified worker of

fhe Comertion the Port of Colombo shall be entitled to employment

orlers of the in the service of the Corporation, unless the Board

Port of Colombo. of Directors for any good reason considers him
unsuitable for employment. The Board of Directors
shall cause such person to be informed by written notice
of the employment in the service of the Corporation
which is offered to him, the date of commencement of
such employment, the remuneration and conditions of
such employment, and the period within which he may
accept the offer. The remuneration offered to such
person shall be generally calculated in accordance with
the rates of remuneration applicable on February 1,
1958, to a worker in an employment of the same des-
cription as the employment offered to such person by

: the Board of Directors, and if such person was on

February 1, 1958. in receipt of a basic monthly salary
of not more than four hundred and seventy-five ra pees,
the basic salary offered to him by the Board of Directors
shall not be less than the aforesaid basic monthly
salary,

(2) Where any person to whom an offer of employ-
ment under sub-section (1) is made accepts that offer
within the time allowed therefor by the notice of such
offer, the Board of Directors shall employ him in the
servieé of the Corporation in the post and on the
terms specified in such offer.

Provision, 53. | Where the services of any employee of the

ie reasd t© Corporation are to be terminated on any ground other

of aervices than that of misconduct, notice of such termination
shall be given by the Board of Directors to such
employee at least one month before the date of such
termination or one month’s salary or wages shall be
paid to him by such Board in lieu of such notice.


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958 27,

bh 2, ‘The Port Commissioner shall, after the date Provision

‘on which the licences referred to in sub-section (1) of if."fus
ection 27 cease to be in force by virtue of that sub-  keows as the
fection, transfer to the Corporation all the monies pi;°*
which, at the time of the transfer, are to the credit of | Commercist
the Provident Fund established for the Port of Colombo iei*=*"
on May 1, 1955, and known as the “‘ Provident Fund, Colonte.
Gommercial Workmen, Port of Colombo ””.
* (2) The Port Commissioner shall recover any arrears
of contributions due to the Provident Fund referred
to in sub-section (1), up to the date of the transfer to
the Corporation of the monies of that Provident Fund,
from employers or employees, and any such arrears of
contributions as are not recovered before. that date by
the Port Commissioner shall be paid after that date to
the Corporation by the persons from whom the arrears
are due.

(8) Any person who as an employee was a contri-
butor to the Provident Fund referred to in sub-section
(1) shall, if he is not employed by the Corporation, be
entitled to receive from the Corporation such amount
oat of the monies transferred to the Corporation under
sub-section (1) as was to the credit of his individual
account in the Provident Fund referred to in that sub-
section.

55. (1) This section shall apply to every such Gratuities
employee of a port entrepreneur of the Port of Colombo veretle
as has ceased or ceases to be that employee after preseare of
October 28, 1957, whether of his own accord or upon §4,Fatt of
the termination of his services by that entrepreneur.

(2) A port entrepreneur of the Port of Colombo
who, during the whole or any part of the period (here-
after in this section referred to as the “ relevant
Heriod ”) commencing on December 20, 1950, and end-
tbg on the date on which the licences referred to, in
sub-section (1) of section 27 cease to be in force by
virtue of that sub-section, was the employer of any
employee to whom this section applies shall pay,; if
fuch employee is employed by the Corporation, to ‘the
forporation, or, if such employee is not employed by

e larporsHos to such employee, as a gratuity in res-
pect. of the service of such employee under such
aployer during the relevant period, a sum which
' @ where such employee was remunerated by such

employer at a poarnly rate, be calculated at
the rate of one-half of one month’s salary for
every twelve months of employment under
such employer during the relevant period, and


28 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958
(®) where such employes was remunerated by sud}
employer at a daily rate, be calculated at the
rate of fifteen days’ wages for every twely,
months of employment under such employe,
during the relevant period:

Provided that— .

(a) where such employer has, for the period gf.

service of such employee under such employer”
in the relevant period, paid in respect of
such employee any contributions to any
gratuity or provident fund or scheme estab.
fished by such employer, the amount of such
contributions shall be deducted from the
amount of the gratuity which such employer!
is liable under the preceding provisions of
this sub-section to pay in respect of such
employee, and

(b) where the amount of such employer's contribu.

tions in respect of such employee to such
gratuity or provident fund or scheme for such
period of service of such employee exceeds
the amount of such gratuity, such employer
shall be exempt from the liability to pay such
gratuity.

(3) The monthly rate or the daily rate referred to
in sub-section (2) shall, with reference to any employee
to whom this section applies, be the monthly rate or
daily rate applicable to him immediately before he
ceased to be in the employ of the employer who is
liable under that sub-section to pay a gratuity in
respect of that employee, and the one month’s salary]
or the fifteen days’ wages referred to in that sub-section,
shall include the cost of living allowance and the
dearness allowance but shall not include any other,
allowance or any payment for overtime work :

Provided that, in the case of any employee who
was employed by the port entrepreneur of the Port
of Colombo known as A. V. Michael Fernando & Com-
pany, Limited, the monthly-rate or the daily-rate
referred to in sub-section (2) shall be that which was
in force on February 1, 1958.

(4) Every port entrepreneur of the Port of Colombo
shall, upon pang. directed to do so by the Chairman
of the Board of Directors or by an officer of the Corpo-
ration who is authorised in that behalf by such
Chairman, furnish to such Chairman or such officer
any information which such Chairman or such officer


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 29
‘yay require in regard to any matters which are speci-
ped in sub-section (2) and which relate to that
gutrepreneur.
© (6) Any port entrepreneur of the Port of Colombo
‘who, without reasonable cause, fails to comply with
‘any direction given to him under sub-section (4) shall
be guilty of an offence and shall, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, be liable to
imprisonment of either a for a period not
exceeding one year or to a fine not exceeding one
thousand rupees, or to both such imprisonment and
fine.

56. Whore any employes of a port entrepreneur of Provision in
the Port of Colombo has been a contributor to a provi- Shas”
dent fund, other than the provident fund referred to provident funds
in section 54, and that employee is employed by the  tmployees of
Corporation, the administrators of the first-mentioned Pert entre:
provident fund shall, notwithstanding anything to the Port‘ot Colombo
contrary in the rules of the first-mentioned fund, {8 48 employed
transfer to the Corporation the amount which was to toa have been
the credit of the individual account of that employee stv.
in the first-mentioned fund on the date on which that
employee ceased to be an employee of that entrepreneur.

57. Where a port eutrepreneur of the Port of Pasmest ot
Colombo is liable to pay any sum to a qualified worker uaiised’ ”
of the Port of Colombo under any such collective agree- workers, of
ment affecting that worker and effected under the of colombo
Industrial Disputes Act, No. 43 of 1950, as isin opera- der,
tion on the date on which the licences referred to in agreements
sub-section (1) of section 27 cease to be in force by of other
virtue of that sub-section, or under any other agree- tnd awards,
ment or award which is in force on that date and
which legally binds that entrepreneur and that worker,
that entrepreneur shall,— |

(a) where that worker is employed by the Gereers

tion—

(i) pay that sum to the Corporation if that
sum is payable as a pratnity or out
of a provident fund, or,

(ii) pay that sum to the Corporation to be paid
to that worker if that sum is payable
otherwise than as a gratuity or out
of a provident fund; and

(®) where that worker is not employed by the Cor-

poration, pay that sum to that worker.


30 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958
Disposal ot 88, Any sum— .
‘Riosterad ce (@ which is paid to the Corporation under gijf
pide te section (2) (a) of section 47 in respect of a
"poration. employee of the Corporation, or *
(®) which is transferred to the Corporation unde
sub-section (1) of section 54 and which wa,
to the credit of the individual account of ay
employee of the Corporation in the Provident
Fund referred to in that sub-section, or |
() which is paid to the Corporation under subi
section (2) of section 55 as a gratuity to an
employee of the Corporation, or
(@) which is transferred to the Corporation under
section 56 in respect of an employee of the
Corporation, or
(e) which is paid to the Corporation under para:
graph (a) (i) of section 57 in respect of an
employee of the Corporation,
shall—
(i) be credited to the individual account of that
employee in any provident fund which the
Corporation may establish for its employees,
or
(ii) be transferred to any provident fund which the
Government may establish for workers under
any other written law.
Labour 59. (1) The Minister shall, in consultation with
Tevonel the Minister to whom the subject of labour is for the
Tagore, time being assigned, establish a Labour Tribunal
we dsemize or Labour Tribunals for the purpose of determining
Sispote. the disputes that may be referred under this Act to a
Labour Tribunal. 1
(2) The Labour Tribunal or each Labour Tribunal
established under this section shall consist of one
person appointed by the Minister. The term of office
of a person so appointed shall be determined by the
Minister and shall be specified in the letter of
appointment, i
(8) ‘The determination of a Labour Tribunal on any
dispute referred to it under this Act shall be final an
conclusive and shall not be called in question in any
court,
(4) Every Labour Tribunal established under this
section vhall have all the powers of a District Court—
(a) to summon and compel the attendance of
‘witnesses ;


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 31

(8) to compel the production of books, records and

other documents relating to remuneration

and terms of employment of any employee,

or to any matter under inquiry by the
Tribunal ; and

(@) to administer an oath or affirmation to

witnesses.

(5) Every person giving evidence on any matter
pefore a Labour Tribunal established under this
gection shall be bound to state the truth on such
matter.

(6) A person who is appointed under this section
to function as a Labour Tribunal shall be remunerated
jn such manner as may be determined by the Minister
with the concurrence of the Minister of Finance.

(7) Every person who as a witness attends a
Labour Tribunal established under this section shall
be paid as travelling and other expenses such sum as
shall be determined by such Tribunal.

(8) Such sums as may be required for making the
payments under sub-section (6) and sub-section (7)

‘and for defraying the expenses of every Labour
Tribunal established under this section’ shall be
provided by the Corporation.

60. (1) Any dispute between the Board of Disputes thet
Directors and any person a to whether or not he isa Rilnel for
person to whom the Board of Directors shall offer — éetermjostion
employment under section 52 shall be referred in ‘Riduaal er
writing by such Board for determination to a Labour — Zetew
‘Tribunal established under this Act. anal

(2) Any dispute as to whether or not any sum is
payable by any person; under section 55, section 56,
or section 57 shall, upon application being made in
that behalf to the Comipissioner of Labour within the
prescribed period by any party to the dispute, be
Teterred in writing by the Commissioner for determina
tion to a Labour Tribunal established under this Act.

(3) Regulations may be made under this Act in
respect of the reference of disputes under this Act to,
and the inguiries into such disputes by, a Labour
Tribunal o Labour ‘Tribunals established under this

ct.


a 32 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958
ovtamente 61. Where any employee of the Corporation haz!
ue trom a2y _efore his appointment as such employee, obtained &
{2°eiperesion Joan from the Lady Lochore Loan Fund and that loay,
seme" and the interest thereon are repayable by him ig
ffon the Lady instalments, then, if any such instalment is due frog
Hechore Leet him, the Board of Directors shall cause that instalmeng
interest to be deducted from the salary or wages payable to hing
ereen by the Corporation and to be transmitted to the Boarg

of Trustees of that Fund. ot
Tostelments 62. Where any employee of the Corporation has,
ue fom #97 hefore his appointment as such employee, obtained an
ferCorpeation advance of salary or wages from a port entrepreneur
i rereyment of the Port of Colombo and the amount of such
st tala er advance is repayable by that employee in instalments,
qwesfame? then, if any such instalment is due from that

i Fete of tbe employee, the Board of Directors shall cause that
Ctlembo. instalment to be deducted from the salary or wages

ayable to that employee by the Corporation and to
be ‘transmitted to that entrepreneur.
PART VI.
CHARGES THAT MAY BE MADE BY TIE CORPORATION, AND
‘THE POWER OF THE CORPORATION TO SELL CERTAIN GOODS.
Charges that 63. (1) The charges that may be made by the
peybe mde — Corporation for prescribed services rendered by it
Gowponticn. shall be fixed, and may be revised from time to time,
by Order made by the Minister in consultation with
the Board of Directors and published in the Gazette.

(2) The charges that may be made by the
Corporation for services which are not. prescribed
services shall be fixed, and may be revised from time
to time, by an officer authorised in that bebalf by the
Board of Directors.

(3) Charges in respect of goods to be landed by the
Corporation shall become payable immediately on the
Tanding of the goods or within such time after the
landing of the goods as may be determined by
the Board of Directors. '

(4) Charges in respect of goods to be shipped by
the Corporation shall be payable before the goods are
shipped or within such time after the goods are
shipped as may be determined by the Board of
Directors.

(5) Charges in respect of goods to be removed from
the premises of the Corporation shall be payable on
demand before the goods are removed from those


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 33
jjremises or within such time after the goods are
Pmoved from those premises as may be determined
jy the Board of Directors.
64. ‘The Corporation— CCorporstion t0
(a) shall have a lien on any goods in its possession gonisin espe
for any charges due to the Corporation in %"sch srg
respect of those goods, and i dorporation.
(®) where any charges due to the Corporation in
respect of any goods not in the possession of
the Corporation are not paid, may seize
those goods, when they are in the possession
of any person other than the Crown, not-
withstanding that such person may have a
lien on them, and remove and detain them
until those’ charges are paid to the
Corporation.
65. (1) Where any goods— Power to sal
(a) are detained by the Corporation for non- &4 rhe
payment of any charges payable in respect of by or are i=
them to the Corporation, or peice.
(8) are placed in the custody of the Corporation,
then, if within the period specified in the notice
published in respect of those goods under sub-section
(8), the charges payable to the Corporation in respect
of those goods are not paid and those goods are not
removed by the cwaate thereof from ie prezines of
the Corporation, the Board of Directors may, at the
expiration of such period, cause those goods to be sold
by public auction :
Provided that, if those goods are of so perishable a
nature as, in the opinion of the Board of Directors,
to render their immediate sale necessary, such Board
may cause those goods to be sold by public auction
without publishing a notice under sub-section (3), and
without giving the notices under sub-section (4), in
respect of those goods. |
(2) For the purpose of sub-section (1), a sale shall
tot be rendered invalid by reasou only. that it takes
place on premises or in an area to which the public
is not admitted except on production of a pass.
(2) Subject to the provisions of the proviso to sub-
section (1), the Board of Directors shall, in regard to
any goods referred to in sub-section (1), cause a notice
to be published in one Sinhala, one ‘Tamil and one
aa newspaper that, unless any charges payable
to the Corporation in respect of those goods are paid
ox R000 6


34 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 19585

within such period of not less than three days as shijj
be specified in the notice and unless those goods ay
removed by the owners thereof from the premises gf
the Corporation within that period, such goods yi}
be sold by public auction. i

(4) If the address of the owner of any goods referrej
to in a notice under sub-section (3) or of his agey
has been stated in the manifest of any cargo consisting
of or including those goods, or in any of the document,
in the possession of the Board of Directors, or is othe.
wise known to such Board, and such address is within
Ceylon, such Board shall cause a notice similar to that
mentioned in sub-section (3) to be given to such owne;
by letter delivered at or sent by post to such addres,
and, if those goods have been discharged from any
vessel, to the agent of that vessel. ‘

45) The title of a purchaser of any goods sold unde,
this section shall not be invalidated by reason only of
the omission to publish the notice under sub-section (3)
or to give the notices under sub-section (4), nor shall
any such purchaser be bound to inquire whether such
notice has been published or such notices have been
given.

(6) The proceeds of the sale of any goods under this
section shall be applied by the Board of Directors as
follows and in the following order: —

(a) firstly, in payment of any money payable to the
Government as duty or warehouse rent in res-
pect of the goods;

@) secondly, in payment of the expense of the sale
of the goods;

(0) thirdly, in payment of the charges due to the
Corporation in respect of the goods;

(d) fourthly, in payment of freight or other charges
payable in respect of the goods to a ship-
owner if notice of a lien on the goods for
such freight or charges has been given by o
on. behalf of the shipowner in accordance
with the law for the time being in force rela-
ting to merchant shipping. “|

‘Where any balance is left after such proceeds are
applied in the aforesaid manner, the Board of Direc
tors shall pay it on demand to the person entitled
thereto, and, if no such demand is made within one
year after the sale of the goods, such balance shall fort
part of the funds of the Corporation and thereupoo
the rights of any person other than the Corporation
to suck balance shall be extinguished. i


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 35
66. (1) If the master, owner, or agent of any vessel Power of
‘ils. to pay to the Corporation on demand made by fed
he Chairman of the Board of Directors any charges sunmstiy
tr any part of any charges that are payable to the paymeat ot
Gorporation for any services rendered by the Corpora. 4g
tion in respect of that vessel, such Chairman may fot serie
gotify such failure in writing to the Collector of Cus- rendered in
foms of the Port of Colombo. Upon such notification {i} tea,
being made, section 26 of the Customs Ordinance sball
apply to the recovery of such charges as if such charges
were referred to in that section, and, in the applica-
tion of such section to the recovery of such charges,
such section shall have effect as if the reference therein
to the demand of such charges were a reference to
the demand of such charges by the Chairman of the
Board of Directors and as if the references therein to
the Crown were references to the Corporation. Auy
such charges which are recovered by such Collector of
Customs shall be transmitted by him to the Cor-
poration

(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) shall be deemed to
be in derogation of the right of the Corporation to
recover the charges or any part of the charges referred
to in that sub-section by any other legal proceedings.

67. Where there is any false or incorrect informa- Double charge
tion in any document furnished to the Corporation inf seriees
regard to any goods by or on behalf of the consignor seodered in
or consignee of those goods and the Corporation ren- fury de?
ders any service in respect of those goods, the Board  Seporadea
of Directors may, notwithstanding anything to the if, fslse, oF
contrary in any other provision of this Act, order the {formation
consignor or consignee, as the case may be, to pay for frekr'to”
that service twice the normal charge made for that those gods.
service '

68. The Board of Directors may remitithe whole or Power ot Board
any portion of the charges payable by any person under *ait"chortas”
this Act for services rendered by the Corporation. ally of partly,

PART VII.
GENERAL.

69, (1) The Miriister may make regulations for the Regulations
Purpose of carrying out or ‘ving efiect to the princi-
Ples and provisions of this Act.


36 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 18 of 1958

(2) In particular and without prejudice to the gens
rality of the powers conferred by sub-section (1), thy
Minister may make regulations in respect of’ ty
following matters: —

(@) any matter required by this Act to be prescrit
or in respect of which regulations are auth:
rised by this Act to be made;

(0) the establishment of a Port Users’ Consultatiyg
Committee to advise the Conporation on thy
adequacy, suitableness, and elficiency of, ang
on any other matter relating to, the service,
provided by the Corporation; t

(c) the establishment and administration of a Re
ward Fund for such purposes as may by
prescribed; w

(@) the prevention of the theft of or damage to, o¢
the commission of nuisances on, any property
used by the Corporation, and the imposition

of penalties on, and the recovery of compen.
sation from, persons responsible for such
theft, damage or nuisance;

(¢) the disposal (whether by sale or otherwise) of
such goods in the custody of the Corporation
as are not removed, within such time as may
be determined by any officer of the Cor
poration authorised in that behalf by the
Board of Directors, by the persons who ate
entitled to those goods;

(f) the employment by the Corporation of any
employees of port entrepreneurs of any port
to which an Order mane. under subsector
(2) of section 26 applies; the remuneration of
such of those employees as are employed by
the Corporation; the payment of gratuities,
if any, by such entrepreneurs to theit
employees after such entrepreneurs cease to
be such entrepreneurs by virtue of sub-
section (2) of section 27; the disposal of the
monies which are to the credit of the indivi
dual accounts of such of those employees as
are employed by the Corporation, in any
gratuity or provident fund or scheme esta-
blished by any such entrepreneur; deductions
to be made from compensation payable to such
entrepreneurs in respect of any property
acquired or requisitioned for the Corporation;
and any other matter relating to such of those
employees as are employed by the Cor-
poration. 3


Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958 37
(8) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
“published in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on the date of such publication or on such later date
“as may be specified in the regulation.

(4) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as
soon as convenient after its publication in the Gazette,
be brought before the Senate and the House of Repre-
sentatives for approval. Any regulation which is not
so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from
the date of disapproval, but without prejudice to any-
thing previously done thereunder.

70. Any person who contravenes the provisions of contravention
any regulation made under this Act shall be guilty of %* servation
an offence and shall, on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment of either
description for a period not exceeding one year or to
a fine not exceeding one thousand rupees, or to both
such imprisonment and fine.

74. The Board of Directors may compound any Poner of
claim or demand made against the Corporation by any Besrd ot |
rson for such sum or other compensation as the 2%

Beard may deem sufficient. dnige

72, Where an offence under this Act is committed — Lisbitity of
by a body corporate, every person who at the time of Ditectorsand
the commission of the offence was a director, general of» baiy,
manager, secretary or other similar officer of the body Sqr for
corporate shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence committed by
unless he proves that that offence was committed with- ‘+ bei.
out his consent or connivance and that he exercised all

ssuch diligence to prevent the commission of that offence
las he ought to have exercised having regard to the
Inature of his functions and in all the eiroumstancés.

78, (1) Where any property is subject toa mortgage Provision ia
jor lease at the time when that property is vested in SENN
‘the Corporation under this Act, the rights of the teases.
mortgagee or of the purchaser of the mortgaged pro-
perty under a mortgage decree, or of the lessee, shall,
notwithstanding the provisions of section 31 (8), b+
limited to any sum paid under this Act as compensation
in respect of such property.

: ) Nothing in this Act shall affect the right of a
mortgagee to have recourse to any property or security
other than that vested in the Corporation under this
Act for the recovery of the debt secured by the mort-
“gage.


38 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958
(3) Where any property is subject to a lease at the
time when that property is requisitioned for the Cor.
poration under this Act, the rights of the lessee shall;
notwithstanding the provisions of section 32 (6), be
Vimited to any sum paid under this Act as compen.
sation in respect of that property.
Power of 74. Any company or other body of persons may,
Brute ioe” notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any writ-
contracts with ten law or instrument relating to its functions,
{e'Corperstion. enter into and perform all such contracts with the
Corporation as may be necessary for the performance
of the duties and the exercise of the powers of the
Corporation.
Protection 78. (1) No suit or prosecution shall lie—
{aken under (a) against the Corporation for any act which in
ae ‘ood faith is done or purports to be done by
Tieton ot the Corporation under this Act; or
the Board ot a
Directors (v) against any member, officer, servant or agent of
the Corporation for any act which in god
faith is done or purports to be done by hii
under this Act or on the direction of the
Board of Directors.

(2) Any expense incurred by the Corporation in any
suit or arecopranl boa a by or against the Cor.
poration before any court shall be paid out of the funds
of the Corporation, and any costs paid to, or recovered
by, the Corporation in any such suit or prosecution
shall be credited to the funds of the Corporation.

(3) Any expense incurred by any such person as is
referred to in paragraph (b) of sub-section (1) in any
suit or prosecution brought against him before any
court in respect of any act which is done or purports to
be done by him under this Act or on the direction of the
Board of Directors shall, if the court holds that such
act was done in good faith, be paid out of the funds
of the Corporation, unless ‘such expense is recovered
by him in such suit or Proseoution

No writ to 76. No writ against person or property shall be
ise ‘sgeitst issued against a member of the Corporation in any
Property'ot action brought against;the Corporation.

the Corporation, }

Tie Corporation 77. The Corporation shall be deemed to be a
‘“teeaued” Scheduled institution within the meaning of the
‘ouitwion” Bribery Act, No. 11 of 1954, and the provisions of that
Eewofog: Act shall be construed accordingly.

fe Biers


39 Port (Cargo) Corporation Act, No. 13 of 1958S;
“ qualified worker of the Port of Colombo ”” mean.)
any person who— +
(i) was on February 1, 1958, either’ an:
‘employee of a port entrepreneur of the:
Port of Colombo or in the Labour
Reserve established under the Port of
Colombo (Administration) Act, No. 10
of 1950, and s

(ji) was engaged, in the twelve months pre-
ceding February 1, 1958, for at least
one hundred and eighty days in the
work of, or in work connected with or
ag | to, stevedoring, warehousing
or landing cargo, supplying water,
building or repairing boats and other
vessels, or bunkering coal in the Port
of Colombo, each period of eight hours’
continuons work being regarded as a
day for the purpose of reckoning the
aforesaid one hundred and eighty

days, and
(iii) was on February 1, 1958, in receipt of any
salary or Wages (not including any
allowance or any payment for overtime
work) of an amount not exceeding four
hundred and seventy-five rupees per

mensem ;

+ remuneration ” means basic’ daily wage or
monthly salary and cost of living allowance
or dearness sloaeanem, ‘or any composite sum
consisting of the basic daily wage or monthly
salary and such allowance, and does not
jnclude any payment for overtime! work; and

© stevedoring ”” means the operations connected with
the loading, discharging, shipping, tran
shipping, and storing of cargo in the holdi
of, or on board, any vessel.

|
