10Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDURE(AMENDMENT) ACT , No. 47 OF 1999

[Certified on 10th December, 1999]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 1999

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA.TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 01

Price: Rs. 6. 75Postage: Rs.3.50

[Internet Version]

1Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

H-022545

[Certified on 10th December , 1999]

L. D. - O. 33/99.

AN ACT TO AMEND THE CODE OF CRIMINAL PROCEDUREACT, NO. 15 OF 1979

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic SocialistRepublic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1.This Act may be cited as the Code of CriminalProcedure (Amendment) Act, No.47 of 1999 and shall comeinto operation on such date as the Minister may appoint byOrder published in the Gazette.

2. Section 303 and 304 of the Code of CriminalProcedure Act, No.15 of 1979 (hereinafter referred to as theprincipal enactment) are hereby repealed and the followingsections substituted therefor :-

303. (1) Subject to the provisions of thissection, on sentencing an offender to a term ofimprisonment, a court may make an ordersuspending the whole or part of the sentence ifit is satisfied, for reasons to be stated in writing,that it is appropriate to do so in thecircumstances, haveing regard to

(a) the maximum penalty prescirbed for theoffence in respect of which the sentenceis imposed ;

(b) the nature and gravity of the offence ;

(c) the offenders culpability and degree ofresponsibility for the offence ;

(d) the offenders previous character ;

(e) any injury, loss or damage resultingdirectly from the commission of theoffence ;

Short title anddate of operation.

Replacement ofsections 303 and304 of Act,No.15of 1979.

Suspendedsentence ofimprisonment

2Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(f) the presence of any aggravating ormitigating factor concerning theoffender ;

(g) the need to punish the offender to anextent, and in a manner, which is just inall of the circumstances ;

(h) the need to deter the poffender or otherpersons from committing offences of thesame or of a similar character ;

(i) the need to manifest the denunciation bythe court of the type of conduct in whichthe offender was engaged in ;

(j) the need to protect the victim or thecommunity from the offender ;

(k) the fact that the person accused of theoffence pleaded guilty to the offence andsuch person is sincerely and trulyrepentant ; or

(l) a combination of two or more of theabove.

(2)A court shall not make an ordersuspending a sentence of imprisonment if -

(a) a mandatory minimum sentence ofimprisonment has been prescribed bylaw for the offence in respect of whichthe sentence is imposed ; or

(b) the offender is serving, or is yet to serve,a term of imprisonment that has notbeen suspended ; or

3Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(c) the offence was committed when theoffender was subject to a probation orderor a conditional release or discharge ;or

(d) the term of imprisonment imposed, orthe aggregate terms of imprisonmentwhere the offender is convicted for morethan one offence in the sameproceedings, exceeds two years.

(3)The period for which the whole or a partof a sentence may be suspended (hereinafterreferred to as the operational period) shallbe

(a)determined ; and

(b)specified,

by the court when making the order suspendingthe whole or part of the sentence :

Provided that such period shall not be lessthan five years from the date of the ordersuspending the whole or part of the sentence.

(4)An offender sentenced to suspendedimprisonment shall not serve any part of theimprisonment that is suspended unless

(a) during the operational period theoffender commits another offence thestatutory penalty for which is, orincludes, imprisonment ; and

(b) a court makes an order under subsection(13).

(5)The operational period shall becalculated with effect from the date of the ordersuspending the whole or part of the sentence.

4Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(6)If during the operational period anoffender is sentenced to imprisonment foranother offence committed prior to thecommencement of the operational period, theoperational period continues to elapse while theoffender is serving that sentence.

(7) An offender who is sentenced tosuspended imprisonment shall be taken to bedischarged from the sentence at the end of theoperational period.

(8)A suspended sentence of imprisonmentshall be taken as being a sentence ofimprisonment for the purpose of any law, exceptany law providing for disqualification for, or lossof, office or the forfeiture or suspension ofpensions or other benefits.

(9)If under subsection (13) an offender isordered to serve the whole or part of a whollysuspended sentence of imprisonment then, forthe purposes of any law providing fordisqualification for, or loss of, office or theforfeiture or suspension of pensions or otherbenefits, the offender shall be taken to have beensentenced to imprisonment on the day on whichthe order was made under that subsection.

(10) For the purposes of subsections (8) and(9), law includes enactments of Parliament,regulations, rules and by-laws made under anyenactment of Parliament, the Minutes onPensions, and Codes or Rules made by orapproved by the Cabinet of Ministers.

5Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(11)If a court convicts a person of an offencethe statutory penalty for which is, or includes,imprisonment and that offence was committedduring the operational period in relation toanother offence, any court shall deal with theperson under subsection (13).

(12)(a) If a person has been convicted anddealt with for an offence the statutory penaltyfor which is, or includes, imprisonment and thatoffence was committed during the operationalperiod in relation to another offence, then acomplaint may be made to the court thatimposed the suspended sentence undersubsection (1) in relation to the other offence,alleging those matters.

(b)A complaint under paragraph (a) maybe made

(i)by any person ;

(ii) not later than two years from the end ofthe operational period.

(c) A complaint under paragraph (a) shallbe in writing and be supported by an affidavitfrom the complainant.

(d) If a complaint in writing, supported byan affidavit is received by the court underparagraph (a), the court shall summon theperson in respect of whom it had imposed asuspended sentence and the person making thecomplaint under paragraph (a) to appear beforeit at a specified place, date and time.

(e) A summons issued on a person underparagraph (d) shall be served on that personpersonally or left at the place where that personwas last known to be living.

6Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(f) If any person summoned to appear beforecourt under paragraph (d), fails to appear in courtin response to the summons, the court shallissue a warrant to have the person arrestedand brought before it.

(13) (a) If on the hearing of a complaintunder subsection (12) the court is satisfied thata person has been convicted of an offence thestatutory penalty for which is, or includes,imprisonment and that the offence wascommitted during the operational period inrelation to an offence in respect of which thecourt had imposed a suspended sentence, thecourt may, notwithstanding anything insubsection (7)

(i) restore the sentence or part sentence heldin suspense and order the offender toserve it ; or

(ii) restore part of the sentence of partsentence held in suspense and order theoffender to serve it ; or

(iii) in the case of a wholly suspendedsentence, extend the operational periodto a date not later than twelve monthsfrom the date of the order ;

(iv) make no order with respect to thesuspended sentence,

and may, in addition, impose a fine notexceeding twenty - five thousand rupees suchperson.

7Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(b) If a court orders an offender underparagraph (a) to serve a term of imprisonmentthat had been held in suspense, the term shall,unless the court otherwise orders, be served (i) forthwith ; and

(ii) concurrently with any other term ofimprisonment the offender is serving oris yet to serve.

(c) A court shall make an order under sub-paragraphs (i) or (ii) or (iii) of paragraph (a) ofsubsection (13) unless it is of the opinion that itwould be unjust to do so in view of all thecircumstances which have arisen, or havebecome known, since the suspended sentencewas imposed, including the fact of anysubsequent offence, and if it is of that opinion,the court shall state its reasons in writing.

(d) If in respect of a complaint made undersubsection (12) it is not possible for the court todeal with the offender immediately, it shallrelease him on bail upon such terms as it mayimpose.

304. A court proposing to make an ordersuspending a sentence of impirsonment shall,before making such order (a) explain, or cause to be explained, tothe offender in a language readilyunderstood by the offender :

(i) the purpose and effect of theproposed order ; and

(ii) the consequences that may followif the offender commits anotheroffence punishable with imprison-ment during the operationalperiods;

Court to explaineffect of order tooffender.

8Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

(b) make an order for the identification andfingerprinting of the offender.

3. Section 305 of the principal enactment is herebyrepealed.

4. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

Repeal of section305 of theprincipalenactment.

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency.

9Code of Criminal Procedure (Amendment)Act, No. 47 of 1999

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs.885 (Local). Rs.1,180(Foreign). Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT. GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKSHOUSE, LOTUS ROAD, COLOMBO 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the yearfollowing.