PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 20.00

PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 10, 2010.

[Certified on 10th December, 2010]

Printed on the Order of Government

REGISTRATION OF DEATHS (TEMPORARYPROVISIONS) ACT, NO. 19 OF 2010

1Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

Preamble

[Certified on 10th December, 2010]

L. D.O. 36/2008.

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE REGISTRATION OF DEATHS OF PERSONS

REPORTED MISSING AS A RESULT OF TERRORIST OR SUBVERSIVE

ACTIVITY OR CIVIL COMMOTION AND OF PERSONS WHOSE DEATHS ARE

DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO ANY NATURAL DISASTER OR CALAMITY

AND SUCH ACTIVITY, DISASTER OR CALAMITY RESULTS IN SERIOUS

CONSEQUENCES AT NATIONAL LEVEL; AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED

THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

WHEREAS several persons have died or have been reportedmissing in the course of the civil disturbances that havetaken place in Sri Lanka due to terrorist or subversiveactivities or civil commotion:

AND WHEREAS several people have died due to beingexposed to natural disasters or calamities of nationalproportions :

AND WHEREAS there are certain practical difficulties whichimpede the registration of deaths in the circumstances whichare enumerated above under the provisions of the Births andDeaths Registration Act:

AND WHEREAS it has now become necessary to enactlegislation providing measures for the registration of suchdeaths:

NOW THEREFORE BE it enacted by the Parliament of theDemocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Registration ofDeaths (Temporary Provisions) Act, No. 19 of 2010. Theprovisions of this Act shall be in operation for a period ofthree years from the date of its commencement.

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), theMinister may not less than one month prior to the expirationof any period of operation of this Act, by Order published inthe Gazette, extend such period of operation:

Short title,duration andextension ofoperation of theAct.

2Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

Provided however, that any such extension shall not, inany one instance, be for more than a period of two years.

(3) Notification of the date of any extension granted interms of subsection (2) shall be published in the Gazette.

PART I

REGISTRATION OF DEATHS OF PERSONS MISSING DUE TO TERRORIST

OR SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITY OR CIVIL COMMOTION

2.(1) Where any person is reported missing and he hasnot been heard of for a period exceeding one year by thosewho would naturally have heard of him, had he been aliveand his disappearance is attributable to any terrorist orsubversive activity or civil commotion which has taken placewithin Sri Lanka, a next of kin of such person if he verilybelieves such person to be dead, may apply in the mannerhereinafter provided, to register the death of such personunder the provisions of the Births and Deaths RegistrationAct and to have issued to him, a Certificate of Death inrespect of such person.

(2) Every application under this section shall besubstantially in the Form specified in the Schedule to thisAct and shall be forwarded to the Registrar-General or theDistrict Registrar of Births and Deaths of the District in whichsuch missing person was last resident or had his permanentresidence.

3.Every application under this Act shall be supportedby an Affidavit of the applicant setting out the grounds forhis belief that the person whose death is sought to beregistered, is dead, and shall be accompanied by a Reportfrom the Grama Niladhari of the Grama Niladhari Divisionin which the person whose death is sought to be registeredwas last resident or had his permanent residence, confirmingthe fact that such person has not been seen alive or heard of,for a period of over one year, and accompanied by any otherevidence in support of such application.

Who may applyfor the issue of acertificate ofdeath in case ofa person missingdue to terroristactivity &c., andprocedure.

Additionalmaterial to besupplied.

3Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

4.Upon receipt of an application under this Act, theRegister General or the District Registrar, as the case maybe, shall cause a copy of such application to be displayedfor a period of two weeks on the Notice Board kept at hisoffice and in the office of the Grama Niladhari in whosedivision the person whose death is sought to be registeredwas last resident or had his permanent residence.

5.Any person may, within one month of the date onwhich a copy of an application under this Act is firstdisplayed as provided for in section 4, forward to theRegistrar-General or the District Registrar, as the case maybe, his objections in writing to the registration of the deathof the person to whom such application relates, and suchobjection shall be supported by an Affidavit of the objectorand of any other person, setting out clearly the grounds fortheir objections.

6.(1) On the expiry of the period of one month allowedfor the forwarding of objections to an application, theRegistrar-General or the District Registrar, as the case maybe, shall consider the application together with the evidencein support of the application and the objections, if any, andthe evidence tendered in support of such objections, andafter such inquiry as he may deem necessary, if satisfied asto the truth of the matters stated in the application, allowsuch application. Where the application was made to theDistrict Registrar, he shall forward to the Registrar-Generala Report under his hand setting out the particulars of thedeath as is required to be registered, under the Births andDeaths Registration Act, as he has been able to ascertainupon the completion of such inquiry as aforesaid.

(2) On receipt of the Report under subsection (1), theRegistrar-General shall, except in a case where he disallowsa Report in the exercise of the powers conferred on him bysection 7, make order directing the appropriate Registrar toenter in the Register of Deaths maintained by such Registrar

Display ofapplication.

Objection toregistration.

Registration ofDeath.

4Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

under the Births and Deaths Registration Act, the particularsspecified in such Report and issue in respect of such persona Certificate of Death.

(3) On receipt, by a Registrar, of an order under subsection(2), directing him to enter the particulars in relation to therelevant death in the Register of Deaths maintained by himunder the Births and Deaths Registration Act and issue inrespect of such person a Certificate of Death, the Registrarshall forthwith enter those particulars in such register andsign the Register in the appropriate place and issue theCertificate of Death.

(4) There shall be attached to the duplicate of the relevantregistration entry, the written order of the Registrar-Generalmade under subsection (2) and such duplicate and ordershall together be sent, by the Registrar to the appropriateDistrict Registrar for transmission to the Registrar-Generalto be kept in his custody in his office.

7.An applicant who is dissatisfied with the decision ofthe District Registrar refusing to issue a Certificate of Deathto him under section 6, or a person who has objected undersection 5 to the issue of a Certificate of Death under this Actand who is dissatisfied with the decision of the DistrictRegistrar to issue such Certificate, may within one month ofthe notification of such refusal or issue, as the case may be,appeal to the Registrar-General against such refusal or issue,as the case may be. The Registrar-General may after reviewof the material before him, either affirm the decision of theDistrict Registrar, or direct the District Registrar to issue aCertificate under section 6, or disallow the report issued bythat District Registrar under section 6, as the case may be.

Appeal againstrefusal to issuecertificate &C.,

5Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

8.(1) Where a Commission appointed under theCommissions of Inquiry Act (Chapter 393) or a SpecialPresidential Commission of Inquiry established under theSpecial Presidential Commissions Law, No. 7 of 1978 findsthat a person has disappeared or is missing, the next of kin ofthat person may, apply to the Registrar-General or to theDistrict Registrar of Births and Deaths of the District in whichthat person was last residing or had his permanent residence,substantially in the Form set out in the Schedule to this Act,to register the death of that person under the Births andDeaths Registration Act and to have issued to him, aCertificate of Death in respect of the death of that person.Every such application shall be accompanied by an Affidavitof the applicant in terms of section 3 and a certified copy ofthe findings of the Commission of Inquiry or SpecialPresidential Commission of Inquiry, as the case may be,relating to the death of such person.

(2) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (1),the District Registrar shall, notwithstanding anything tocontrary in the preceding provisions of this Act, forthwithsend to the Registrar-General a Report under his hand, settingout the particulars of the death required to be registeredunder the Births and Deaths Registration Act, as he has beenable to ascertain from the application and the accompanyingAffidavit and finding.

(3) Upon receipt of the Report under subsection (2), theRegistrar-General shall make order directing the appropriateRegistrar to register in the Register of Deaths maintained bysuch Registrar under the Births and Deaths Registration Act,the particulars specified in such Report and issue in respectof such person a Certificate of Death.

(4) Upon receipt of an order under subsection (3)directing him to enter the particulars relating to the relevantdeath in the Register of Deaths maintained by him under the

Specialprocedurerelating toregistration ofdeaths ofpersons inrespect of whomthere are findingby aCommission ofInquiry or aSpecialPresidentialCommission ofInquiry.

6Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

Births and Deaths Registration Act, the Registrar shallforthwith enter such particulars in such Register and signthe Register in the appropriate place.

(5) There shall be attached to the duplicate of the relevantregistration entry, the written order of the Registrar-Generalmade under subsection (3) and such duplicate and ordershall be sent together, by the Registrar to the appropriateDistrict Registrar for transmission to the Registrar-Generalto be kept in his custody in his office.

(6) Where the application under subsection (1) is madeto the Registrar-General, the provisions of subsections (2)and (5) shall mutatis mutandis apply as if the reference inthose section to the District Registrar is a reference to theRegistrar-General.

PART II

REGISTRATION OF DEATHS OF PERSONS MISSING DUE TO NATURALDISASTERS OR CALAMITIES

9.Where there has been within Sri Lanka a naturaldisaster or calamity which has caused to either the whole ofSri Lanka or to certain areas thereof, destruction to personsand property which has had far reaching effects at thenational level, and where due to the circumstance of thedeaths of persons who have died as a result of such disasteror calamity, the application of the provisions of the Birthsand Deaths Registration Act to the registration of the deathsof such persons has become impractical, the Registrar-General may, upon verification of the fact that a naturaldisaster or calamity has occurred, declare any AdministrativeDistrict, Divisional Secretarys Division or Grama NiladhariDivision as the case may be, affected by such disaster orcalamity, as a "National Disaster Area".

Registrar-General todeclare"NationalDisaster Areas".

7Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

10.(1) Where any person or persons

(a) who had been resident within an areadeclared to be a National Disaster Areaunder section 9 ; or

(b) who have been resident within any otherarea, but was at the time of the occurrenceof such natural disaster or calamity, knownto have gone to or to have been within anyarea declared to be a National Disaster Areaunder section 9,

cannot be found subsequent to such natural disaster orcalamity and has for all intent and purposes disappeared asa result of such disaster or calamity, a next of kin of suchperson or persons or where no members of the family of suchperson or persons have survived the natural disaster orcalamity, any person having knowledge of such person orpersons may, if he verily believes such person or persons tobe dead, apply to register the death of such person or persons,in the manner hereinafter provided, under the Births andDeaths Registration Act and to have issued to him aCertificate of Death or certificates of Death in respect of thedeath of such person or persons.

(2) Every such application shall be made to the GramaNiladhari of the area within which such person, whose deathis sought to be registered, was habitually resident.

(3) Every such application shall be submitted in any formwhatsoever, containing wherever possible at least some ofthe information set out in the Schedule hereto, whichinformation would as far as practicable be a description ofthe person whose death is sought to be registered. Everysuch application shall be accompanied by an Affidavit insupport of such facts. The Grama Niladhari shall as soon aspossible upon the receipt of such application, and after suchinquiry as he deems necessary, recommend the same andforward it along with a report certifying to the best of hisknowledge the accuracy of the facts stated therein, to the

Who may applyfor the issue of aDeath Certificatein case ofpersons missingas a result of anynatural disasteror calamity, andprocedure.

8Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

Divisional Secretary of the Division within which hisDivision is situated. The Divisional Secretary shall endorseevery such application and forward the same to the Registrar-General.

(4) Upon receipt of an application under subsection (2),duly recommended and endorsed in terms of the provisionsof subsection (3), the Registrar-General shall make orderdirecting the appropriate Registrar to register in theRegister of Deaths maintained by such Registrar under theBirths and Deaths Registration Act, the particulars specifiedin such application and issue in respect of the person towhom the application relates, a Certificate of Death.

(5) Upon receipt of an order under subsection (4)directing him to enter the particulars relating to the relevantdeath in the Register of Deaths maintained by him under theBirths and Deaths Registration Act, the Registrar shallforthwith enter such particulars in such Register and signthe Register in the appropriate place.

(6) There shall be attached to the duplicate of the relevantregistration entry, the written order of the Registrar-Generalmade under subsection (4) and such duplicate and ordershall together be sent, by the Registrar to the appropriateDistrict Registrar for transmission to the Registrar-Generalfor custody in his office.

(7) Where the application under subsection (1) is madedirectly to the Registrar-General, the provisions ofsubsection (2) to (6) shall, mutatis mutandis, apply as if thereference in those sections to the District Registrar is areference to the Registrar-General.

11.Where there is evidence to show that a national ofanother State had been in Sri Lanka and temporarily residentwithin an area declared as a National Disaster Area in termsof section 9, and that it is apparent that such person has diedas a result of the natural disaster or calamity in question,then any person having knowledge of these facts may apply

Registration ofDeaths offoreignnationals.

9Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

for the issue to him of a Certificate of Death in respect ofsuch person. Every such application shall be authenticatedby the representative of the country of which such personwas a citizen, present in Sri Lanka, and such applicationshall be forwarded directly to the Registrar-General whoshall forthwith proceed to register such death and issue inrespect of such person a Certificate of Death.

PART III

MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

12.The provisions of this part of this Act, shallnotwithstanding the provisions of section 108 of theEvidence Ordinance as amended by the Evidence(Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 1988, be applicable to the issueof a Certificate of Death in respect of a person whose death isattributable to any terrorist or subversive activity or civilcommotion or to any natural disaster or calamity where thedeath in question had occurred within an area declared to bea National Disaster Area in terms of section 9.

13.(1) Where a death has been registered pursuant toan application made under sections 2,8,10 or 11 of this Act,and where any person at any time thereafter becomes awarethat the person whose death has been so registered is alive,such person shall forthwith furnish such information to theRegistrar-General.

(2) The Registrar-General shall, on receipt of suchinformation convey the information to the Officer-in-Chargeof the relevant police station, who shall investigate the truthof such information and forward a report to the Registrar-General, within four weeks from the date on which suchinformation is conveyed to such officer.

(3) Upon receipt of a report under subsection (2) and aftersuch inquiry as he may deem necessary the Registrar-General,if satisfied that the person whose death has been registeredis alive, shall take such action, or make such order or give

Procedure ifpersonregistered asdead is found tobe alive.

Provisions of theEvidenceOrdinance not toapply.

10Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

such direction, under section 52 of the Births and DeathsRegistration Act, as is appropriate in the circumstances ofthe case.

(4) Any inquiry held by the Registrar-General under thisAct shall be concluded within one month of itscommencement and the Registrar-General may, for thepurpose of an inquiry under this Act, exercise all the powersexercisable by him under the Births and Deaths RegistrationAct, in relation to an inquiry held by him under that Act.

14.For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declaredthat

(a)if the operation of this Act has lapsed upon theexpiry of the period specified in subsection (1) ofsection 1, and no Order for the extension of theperiod of operation of this Act is made in terms ofsubsection (2) of section 1; and

(b)if a person has been reported as dead and theapplication for the issue of a Certificate of Death inrelation to such person has been made in terms ofthe provisions of sections 2, 8, 10 and 11 of this Actprior to the expiry of the period of operation ofthis Act,

the Registrar-General may proceed to register the death ofsuch person and issue the Certificate of Death in respect ofsuch person, in terms of the provisions of Part I and Part IIrespectively of this Act.

15.Any person who

(a)knowingly, makes a false statement in an applicationmade by him under this Act, or furnishes falseinformation under this Act; or

(b)being aware that a person whose death has beenregistered in pursuance of an application madeunder this Act, is alive, fails to furnish suchinformation to the Registrar-General; or

Avoidance ofdoubt.

Offences.

11Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

(c)dishonestly or fraudulently uses a Certificate ofDeath issued under the Births and DeathsRegistration Act knowing or having reason tobelieve that the person referred to in such certificateis alive,

shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall uponconviction after trial by the High Court be sentenced to aterm of imprisonment of not exceeding five years.

16.In the event of any inconsistency between theSinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shallprevail.

17.In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

"appropriate District Registrar", "appropriateRegistrar" and "District" have the respectivemeanings assigned to them by the Births andDeaths Registration Act;

"Births and Deaths Registration Act" means the Birthsand Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110);

"District Registrar" means a District Registrar of Birthsand Deaths appointed under the Births andDeaths Registration Act;

"Registrar-General" means the Registrar-General ofBirths and Deaths appointed under the Birthsand Deaths Registration Act and includes anAdditional Registrar-General, a DeputyRegistrar-General or an Assistant Registrar-General.

Sinhala text toprevail in caseof inconsistency.

Interpretation.

12Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

SCHEDULE(Sections 2, 8 and 10)

APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF DEATH OF A MISSING PERSON

1.Full Name of missing person :

2.Sex and race ;

3.Age :

4.Date of Death (approximately) :

5.Address of last known residence:

6.Address of permanent residence :

7.Rank or profession :

8.Applicants full name and residence :

9.Applicants relationship to missing person :

I......................................................... of

...................................................................... do hereby state that

the said................................................................... (name of the

person missing).......................................................................... has

been missing for a period of over one year, and I verily believe that

the said.............................................................. is dead.

I therefore request that the death be registered under the Birthsand Deaths Registration Act (Chapter 110) and a Certificate of Deathin respect of such death be issued to me.

........................................Signature of ApplicantDate :.....................................

13Registration of Deaths (Temporary Provisions)Act, No. 19 of 2010

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15thDecember each year in respect of the year following.