- PARLIAMENT OF CEYLON
4th Session 1968-69

Local Government Service

Act, No. 18 of 1969

Date of Assent: June 25, 1969

Printed on the Orders of Government and published as a Supplement to
Ceylon Government Gazette, Part II of July 4, 1969

’ Printed at the DepaRTMENT oF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, CEYLON. To be
‘ purchased at the GovERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BurREAU, COLOMBO

‘i Annual Subscription (including Bills) Rs. 30 (Local), Rs. 40
4 (Foreign), payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT
Pusiications Bureau, P. O. Box 500, Cotomso 1, before 20th
December each year in respect of the year following. Late
subscriptions will be accepted on the condition that Bills

issued before the date of payment will not be supplied.


Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969
L. D.—O. 14/66.

An Act TO ESTABLISH A COMMISSION KNOWN AS THE
Loca, GOVERNMENT SERVICE COMMISSION FOR
THE PURPOSE OF MAKING APPOINTMENTS OF OFFICERS
AND SERVANTS OF LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND FOR
EXERCISING OTHER POWERS IN RESPECT OF SUCH
OFFICERS AND SERVANTS; FOR THE CONSTITUTION
AND REGULATION OF A  LocAL GOVERNMENT
SERVICE; TO PROVIDE FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF
A Loca GovERNMENT SERVICE PENSION FUND,

‘+4 Locat GOVERNMENT SERVICE WIDOWS’ AND
Orpuans’ PENSION FunD AND A LocaL GOVERN-

’ MENT SERVICE PROVIDENT FUND; TO PROVIDE FOR
THE REPEAL OF THE LocaL GOVERNMENT SERVICE
ORDINANCE AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.

[Date of Assent: June 25, 1969]

BE it enacted by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty,

by and with the advice and consent of the Senate and

the House of Representatives of Ceylon in this present.

Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows: —

4. This Act may be cited as the Local Government
Service Act, No. 18 of 1969, and shall come into
““gperation on such date (hereafter in this Act referred

to as the ‘‘ appointed date ’’) as the Minister may

appoint by Order published in the Gazette.

2. (1) For the purposes of this Act, there shall be
established a central authority to be called and known
as the Local Government Service Commission (herein-
after referred to as ‘‘ the Commission ’’).

(2) The Commission shall by the name assigned to
it by sub-section (1) be a body corporate and shall
have perpetual succession and a common seal and may
sue and be sued in such name.

(3) The Commission shall consist of a Chairman and
four other members all of whom shall be appointed by
the Minister.

. (4) A person shall be disqualified for being
velated or continuing as the Chairman or a member

of the Commission if he is a Senator or Member of

Parliament or a member of a local authority.

1°.

B 69365 (6/69)

Short title
and date of
operation.

Establishment
of Local
Government
Service
Commission.


2 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

(5) Where any member of the Commission, other
than the Chairman, is, by reason of illness or’ other
infirmity or absence from Ceylon, temporarily unable
to perform the duties of his office, the Minister may
appoint any person to act in his place. ° '

(6) Where the Chairman is, by reason of illness or
other infirmity or absence from Ceylon, temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, the Minister
may appoint any other member of the Commission to
act an his place.

(7) The Minister may, without assigning a reason,
remove the Chairman or any other member of the
Commission from office. The removal of the Chair-
man or any member of the Commission from office
by = Minister shall not be called in question in any
court.

(8) Any member of the Commission including the
Chairman may resign his office by letter addressed tu
the Minister. ,

(9) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (7): and
sub-section (8), the term of office of each member of .
the Commission including the Chairman shall be three
years: ’

Provided, however, that if the Chairman or any
other member of the Commission vacates his .office
prior to the expiration of his term of office, Mef’
successor shall, unless such successor vacates his office
earlier, hold office for the unexpired portion of the .
term of office of the person whom he succeeds.

F Condaes of 8. (1) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting
veins: of the Commission. In the absence of the Chairman
from any meeting of the Commission, the members of
the Commission attending that meeting shall elect

_from themselves the chairman for that meeting.

(2) Every question which comes up for considera-
tion before the Commission shall be determined by the
majority of the members of the Commission. ‘

(3) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission °
shall be three.

(4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the
Commission may regulate its own procedure. e

(5) Any act or proceeding of the Commission shall
not be invalid by reason only of the existence of §
vacancy among its members or any defect in the
appointment of any of its members.


¢

Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 3

4, (1) There shall be a Secretary of the Commis-
sion, who shall be a member of the Ceylon
Administrative Service.

(2) The other members of the staff of the Commis-
sion shall be appointed from the transferable services
of the Government.

5. The Chairman and other members of the
Commission shall be entitled to receive such remunera-
tion as the Minister may, with the concurrence of the
Minister of Finance, determine.

6. (1) The Commission shall have the following
powers : —

5
(a) to determine all matters relating to methods of
recruitment to, and conditions of employ-
ment in, the service, and the principles to be
followed in making appointments to, the
service and in making promotions and trans-
fers from one post in the service to another;

(b) to, recruit, appoint, promote, transfer, dismiss,
‘retire, interdict, or otherwise punish, mem-
bers of the service and generally to maintain
discipline in the service ;

.. (c) to conduct examinations for appointments to the
Sqr} + Service or to appoint boards of examiners for
4 the purpose of conducting such examinations,
and to charge fees from candidates present-

ing themselves for examinations;

(d) to classify the posts in the service into classes
, or grades, to determine the qualifications
necessary for appointment to any such post or

to posts in any class or grade, to fix the scale

of salaries to be attached to any such post or:
to posts in any class or grade, and to revise .

or adjust with effect from such date as the
Commission may determine any scale so fixed;

(e) to determine the cases in which disciplinary
action against members of the service may be
taken by local authorities generally or by
local authorities of any specified description,
or by any. particular local authority, and the
punishments which such authorities or
authority may impose on such members;

ce (f) to call upon any local authority to keep the
prescribed records relating to members of the
service;

Staff of the
Commission.

Remuneration
of Chairman
and other
members of the
Commission.

Powers of the
Commission.


4 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

(7) to call upon any local authority to furnish before

a specified date such files, other documents
or information as the Commission may
require in respect of any member of the
service in the employment of that local’
authority;

() upon the failure of any local authority to furnish

any files, other documents or information
required under paragraph (g), to authorize,
with the approval of the Minister, any mem-
ber or cfficer of the Commission to enter the
office of the local authority and to obtain such
files, other documents or information, as the
case may be, and for the purpose of obtaining
such files or other documents or information,
to search that office and to remove such files
or other documents from that office to the
office of the Commission and to keep such files
or other documents in the office of the Com-
mission for such period as the Commission
may deem necessary, and to inspect and take
copies of any books, accounts or other docu-
ments kept in the office of the local authority ;

(i) to regulate in the prescribed manner a scheme

(j) to

for providing medical facilities to members
of the service and their wives and childtwx
and for providing financial assistance or
relief to members of the service who are in
debt;

authorize any member or members of the
Commission or any retired civil list officer or
officers to hold an inquiry, in any case
involving the exercise of the disciplinary
powers of the Commission or in any such
case of any specified class or description, for
the purpose of making recommendations to
the Commission in regard to the exercise of
such powers in such case;

(k) to delegate, subject to such terms and conditions

as may be determined by the Commission,
and subject to the provisions of such regula-
tions as may be made for the purpose, to
local authorities of any specified description
or to any particular local authority any of the
powers (other than the power to appoint or
dismiss members of the service), duties or


Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 5

functions conferred or imposed upon, or
vested in, the Commission by or under this
Act;

(2) to make rules under this Act;

€) (m) to exercise such other powers as may be vested
in the Commission by Order made by the
Minister under this section and published in
the Gazette. j

(2\ In the exercise of the powers vested in the Com-
mission by sub-section (1) the Commission may modify,
vary, revise or set aside any decision or determination
made by the Commission.

7. The Minister may call upon the Commission to Powers of the
furnish such files, other documents or information as Minister in.
the Minister may require in respect of the performance Commission.
of the duties and the exercise of the powers of the
Commission.

8. (1) For the purposes of this Act, Ceylon shall _ Division of
be divided into areas specified in Part I of the Schedule C¢¥!0n, into |
nee: ther act and’

(2) No person shall be appointed by the Commission fualisestions.
to any post specified in Part II of the Schedule hereto

-yeucept on the result of an open competitive examina-
tion held in accordance with such rules as may be
made for the purpose.

(3) No person shall be appointed to any post speci-
fied in Part II of the Schedule hereto under any local
authority in any area specified in Part I of that
Schedule unless that person has been resident within
that area for a period of at least three years ,
immediately preceding the date of his appointment. .

(4) No person who is appointed to any post specified
in Part II of the Schedule hereto under any local
authority in any area specified in Part I of that
Schedule shall be transferred to any post outside that
area:

Provided, however, that the preceding provisions
of this sub-section shall not apply to any such person
who was appointed to any post on any date prior to

»the appointed date and who, under the repealed

Ordinance, could be transferred to any post in any
area.


Application of
the Commissions
of Inquiry Act.

Constitution of
a Local
Government
Service, and
provisions
relating to
members of
that service.

6 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

9. The Commission established by this Act shall,
in the case of any inquiry held into any matter
involving the exercise of any disciplinary power vested
in that Commission by or under this Act, have the same
powers as a commission appointed under the Commis-~,
sions of Inquiry Act; and accordingly, any reference”
in any provision of the Commissions of Inquiry Act
to a commission shall be deemed to include a reference
to the Commission established by this Act.

40. (1) A service to be called and known as the
Local Government Service is hereby constituted.

(2) The Local Government Service shall consist of
all monthly paid officers and servants of Municipal
Councils, Urban Councils, Town Councils and Village
Councils other than the officers and servants whose
posts are specified in Part III of the Schedule hereto.

(3) Every person who was, on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, a monthly paid officer
or servant of any local authority (other than an officer
or servant whose post is specified in Part III of the
Schedule hereto), or a member of the Local Government
Service constituted by the repealed Ordinance shall,
with effect from the appointed date, be deemed, to be a
meinber of the Local Government Service constituted
by this Act. Sar

(4) Every member of the service shall, so long as he
continues as such member, be deemed for all purposes
to be in the service of the Commission notwithstanding
that he is for the time being employed under a local
authority and notwithstanding that his salary is paid
out of the funds of that local authority.

(5) Every member of the service shall be deemed to
be a public servant within the meaning and for the
purposes of the Penal Code.

(6) Every member of the service shall be deemed to
be a public servant within the meaning and for
the purposes of the Public Servants (Liabilities)
Ordinance.

(7) No member of the service shall be dismissed or
otherwise punished except in accordance with the
provisions of this Act or any rules made thereunder.

(8) No member of the service shall be dismissed”
unless an: order of dismissal is made by at least three
members of the Commission.


Local Government Service Act, No..18 of 1969 7

41. On or after the appointed date, every appoint- Rbeeininssey bp
ment of any monthly paid officer or servant of any local Commission.
authority other than an officer or servant whose post
is specified in Part III of the Schedule hereto shall,

; notwithstanding anything in any other written law,
be made only by the Commission.

42. (1) Every local authority shall cause and Appointments,
a ! transfers,
permit every person who is appointed or transferred salaries, and
under this Act to any post in the service of that abolition of
authority to perform and discharge the functions and °°
duties of that post and shall, out of its funds, pay

the salary and allowances of each such person.

(2) On or after the appointed date, no post in any
local authority other than a post specified in Part III
of the Schedule hereto shall, notwithstanding anything
in any other written law, be abolished by such local
authority except with the approval in writing of the
Minister.

13. (1) Nothing in the Wages Boards Ordinance Certain
shall apply or be construed or deemed to apply to or Sg ee 5
in relation to or in the case of any person who is a_ the Commission
member of the service, notwithstanding that he is Sr4to members
employed for the time being under a local authority in
or in connection with any service or undertaking which
»partakes of the nature of a trade or industry.

* (2) Nothing in the Industrial Disputes Act, or in
the Employees’ Provident Fund Act shall apply or be
construed or deemed to apply to or in relation to the
Commission in its capacity as employer or to or in
relation to or in the case of any person who is a
member of the service:

Provided, however, that the preceding provisions

of this sub-section shall not be deemed to affect any

- industrial dispute pending, on the day immediately
preceding the appointed date, before an industrial

court or a labour tribunal, and accordingly, for the

purposes of any such dispute, the Commission shall

be deemed to be the successor to the Local Government

Service Commission established by the repealed

Ordinance.

14. (1) Rules may be made— - Rules.

*- (a) for the recruitment, appointment, promotion,
transfer, resignation and retirement of
members of the service: +


Duties of local
authorities.

8 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

(2) for the filling of vacancies of the service;
(c) for the dismissal, interdiction or punishment of

members of the service;

(2) generally for the maintenance of discipline in,

the service;

(e) providing for the conditions and circumstances

in which, and the restrictions subject to
which, the employees of local authorities will
be eligible for the grant of pensions and
gratuities under the Local Government
Service Pension Fund established under
section 16, and the payments to be made to
such employees under such Pension Fund;

(f) providing for the conditions and circumstances

in which, and the restrictions subject to

which, widows and children of employees cf

local authorities will be eligible for

the grant of pensions under the Local

Government Service Widows’ and Orphans’

Pension Fund established under section 17,

the fixing of the contributions to be made to

such Fund by the authority administering

such Fund and employees of local authorities,

the payments to be made from such Fund to

such widows and children, the authorizing of

contributions of such employees to be deduct
ed from their salaries and the prescribing of
the procedure for making such deductions;

(g) prescribing the procedure for making deductions

from the salaries of contributors to the Local
Government Service Provident Fund estab-
lished under section 18.

(2) Any rule made under paragraph (e) or para-
graph (f) of sub-section (1) shall, if so expressed, be
deemed to have had effect from such date, prior to the
date of the publication of the rule in the Gazette, as
may be specified therein.

Every local authority shall—

(a) keep and maintain in respect of each member

of the service in its employ, the prescribed
registers or records; ; i

(b) enter therein all such particulars relating to

each of those members as may be prescribed;


Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 9

(c) furnish to the Commission such returns or
reports relating to those members as may be
prescribed or such information as_ the
Commission may from time to time require;

, (d) permit any member or officer of the Commission
authorized in that behalf under section
6 (1) (2) to enter its office and to inspect and
take copies of any books, accounts, records,
or other documents kept therein.

16. (1) There shall be established a Fund to be  ketablishment
known as the Local Government Service Pension Fund Pension
for the payment of pensions and gratuities to the :
pensionable members of the service.

(2) The pension scheme .established under the
repealed Ordinance shall be deemed to be the Local
Government Service Pension Fund established under
this section.

17. (1) There shall be established a Fund to be Establishment
known as the Local Government Service Widows’ and cor" and
Orphans’ Pension Fund for the payment of pensions Pension Fund.
to the widows and children of the pensionable members
of the service.

(2) The widows’ and orphans’ pension fund or
scheme established under the repealed Ordinance
shall be deemed to be the Local Government Service
Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund established
unde this section.

18. (1) There shall be established a Fund to be Establishment
known as the Local Government Service Provident 9fProvident
Fund for the grant of benefits to the non-pensionable ;
members of the service.

(2) The Local Government Service Provident Fund
established under the repealed Ordinance shall be
deemed to be the Local Government Service Provident
Fund established under this section.

19. Regulations may be made under this Act—

(a) for the administration, regulation, supervision
and control of each of the Funds established
under sections 16, 17 and 18; and

= (b) for all matters for and in respect of which regu-
lations are authorized or required to be made
under this Act.

Regulations


10 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

Berea Ot ae 20. (1) The Local Government Service Ordinance
ment Sarvies is hereby repealed with effect from the appointed date.
rdinance
(Chapter 264), (2) Notwithstanding the repeal of the Local Govern-
ment Service Ordinance,— af

%
(a) the provisions of sections 55 to 58 of that.
, Ordinance shall remain in force;

(b) the provisions of sections 29, 31 to 44, 47 to 52,
54, and 59 to 62 of that Ordinance shall
remain in force subject to such modifications
as may be made by regulations made under
this Act;

(c) every regulation made under that Ordinance
(other than a regulation relating to the estab-
lishment, administration, regulation or
management of the provident fund or the
pension scheme or the widows’ and orphans’
pension fund or scheme, established under
that Ordinance, made under sections 45 and
53 of that Ordinance) and in force on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date
shall, in so far as it is not inconsistent with
the provisions of this Act, be deemed to be a
rule made under this Act, and have effect
accordingly, and may be amended, varied or
rescinded by rule made under this Act;

(d) every regulation relating to the establishment,’
administration, regulation or management of
the provident fund or the pension scheme or
the widows’ and orphans’ pension fund or
scheme, established under that Ordinance,
made under section 45 or 53 of that Ordi-
nance, and in force on the day immediately
preceding the appoirted date shall, in so far
as it is not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, be deemed to be a regulation
made under this Act, and have effect
accordingly, and may be amended, varied or

; rescinded by regulation made under this Act;
‘ and

(e) any inquiry or other matter, which, on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date,
was pending, may be continued, heard and
determined by the Commission established
under this Act, or if that Commission s0’
thinks fit, be held or considered afresh and
determined by that Commission.


Focal Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 11

(3) The Minister; upon being satisfied that the
continuance in operation of any of the sections of the
repealed Ordinance referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of sub-section (2), is no longer required for the

., purposes of this Act, may, by Order published in the
. Gazette, declare that any such section shall cease to
have effect.

24. Every officer or servant who, on the day
immediately preceding the appointed date, was on the
staff of the Local Government Service Commission
established by the repealed Ordinance shall, for the
purposes of the application of the Minutes on
Pensions, be deemed to have been retired, with effect
from the appointed date, on the ground of the
abolition of the post held by such officer or servant:

Provided that the preceding provisions of this
section shall not apply in the case of an officer or
servant who, on or before the appointed date, accepts
and is appointed to a post in the public service or any
local authority.

29. The Minister may, by regulation, amend or

vary the Schedule to this Act and may from time to

_ time replace that Schedule by a new Schedule incorpo-

rating all amendments or variations made therein
Squnder the preceding provisions of this section.

23. If, in first giving effect to the provisions of
this Act, any doubt or difficulty arises in respect of
any matter or question for which no provision or no
effective provision is made by this Act, the Minister
may, by Order, remove or determine such doubt or
difficulty. Every such Order shall be published in the
Gazette, and upon such publication shall have the
force of law and be as valid and effectual as if it were
herein enacted.

24. The payment of any sum by a local authority

by way of contribution to the Local Government

Service Pension Fund or the Local Government.

Service Widows’ and Orphans’ Pension Fund or the
Local Government Service Provident Fund under
this Act or regulations made under this Act shall
be deemed to be a purpose for which the funds at
the disposal of the local authority may-be expended
™ under the written law relating to the powers of that

local authority, and such sum may, in the case of
a local authority which has defaulted in the payment

Officers or
servants on
staff of the
Local Govern-
ment Service
Commission
established by
the repealed
Ordinance
deemed to have-
been retired on
the ground of
abolition of
their offices.

Amendment and:
replacement of
Schedule.

Removal of
difficulties.

Contributions
by local
authorities to
the Local *
Government
Service Pension
Fund, the Local
Government
Service Widows’
and Orphans’
Pension Fund».
and the Local
Government
Service

Provident Fund


Minister to
make
regulations.

Commission to
make rules.

Immunity of
individual
members of the
Commission.

Interpretation,

12 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969

of any sum to any of the aforesaid funds, be deducted
from any moneys payable by the Government to sucit
local authority.

_25. (1) The Minister may make all such regula-
tions as may seem to him to be necessary for carrying
out the provisions of this Act or giving effect to the
principles thereof, including regulations for all
matters for or in respect of which regulations are
authorized or required to be made under this Act.

(2) No regulation made by the Minister under this
section shall have effect until it has been approved
by the Senate and the House of Representatives, and
notification of such approval has been published in
the Gazette.

(3) Upon the publication of any notification under
sub-section (2), the regulation to which the notifica-
tion relates shall be as valid and effectual as though
it were herein enacted.

26. (1) The Commission may, subject to the
general or special direction of the Minister, make rules
for all matters for or in respect of which rules are
authorized or required to be made under this Act, and
all matters stated or required by this Act to be
prescribed. \o

ve

(2) No rule made by the Commission under this Act:

shall have effect until it has been approved by the

Senate and the House of Representatives, and notifica-

tion of such approval has been published in the
Guzette.

27. No action, prosecution or other proceeding,
whether civil or criminal, shall be instituted or main-
tained against any member of the Commission in
respect of anv decision taken or act done or omitted
by the Commission or by any member thereof in his
capacity as such member.

28. In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—
‘* Chairman ’’ means the Chairman of the Commis-
sion;
‘local authority ’? means any Municipal Council, »
Urban Council, Town Council or Village
Council;


Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 18

‘“ members of the service ’? means the monthly paid
officers and servants of local authorities
(other than the officers and servants whose
posts are specified in Part III of the
e Schedule hereto), whether such officers and
servants were annointed before, on or after

the appointed date;

‘‘ prescribed ’”? means prescribed by rule made
under this Act;

‘regulation ’? means a regulation made by the
Minister under this Act;

‘repealed Ordinance ’? means the Local Govern-
ment Service Ordinance (Chapter 264);

“pyle? means a rule made under this Act;

“ the service ’? means the Local Government Service
constituted by section 10 of this Act.

SCHEDULE
PART I (Section 8)
Area A comprising the following: —

The administrative districts of Colombo, Kalutara, Galle,
Matara, Hambantota and Puttalam, exclusive of Puttalam Pattu
and Gravets, Kalpitiya Division, Demala Hatpattuwa and

* Udappu village area.

Area B comprising the following: —

The North-Central Province and the Province of Uva. The
administrative districts of Kandy, Matale, Nuwara-Eliya,
Ratnapura, Kegalla and Kurunegala.

Demala Hatpattuwa in the administrative district of
Puttalam. é

Vavuniya South (Sinhalese Division) in the administrative
district of Vavuniya.

Bintenne Pattu and Wewagam Pattu in the administrative
district of Batticaloa.

Gomarankadawala, Madawachchiya and Kantalai village areas
in the administrative district of Trincomalee.

Panama village area in the administrative district of
Batticaloa.

Puttalam Pattu village area in the administrative district of
Puttalam.

The village areas of Meda Palata and Uda Palata in the

» Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Wewagam Pattu of the

administrative district of Amparai and the village area of Samaa-

turai West in the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Saman-
turai Pattu.


14 Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 .

Area C comprising the following :—

The administrative districts of Jaffna, Mannar and Trincomalee °
(exclusive of Gomarankadawala, Madawachchiya and Kantalai
village areas).

The administrative district of Puttalam exclusive of Demala '
Hatpattuwa, Pitigal Korale South, Pitigal Korale North and
Puttalam Pattu village area.

The administrative district of Vavuniya exclusive of Vavuniy:
South (Sinhalese Division). :

The administrative district of Batticaloa exclusive of Bintenne.
Pattu, Wewagam Pattu and Panama village area.

fhe Udappu village area in the administrative district of
Puttalam.

The village area of Manmunai South in the Batticaloa District,
the village area of Palukamam Mandur and Navagiri Nagar in
the Divisional Revenue Officer’s Division of Eruvil Porativu and
the village area of Samanturai East in the Divisional Revenue
Officer’s Division of Samanturai Pattu of Amparai administrative
district.

PART II (Section 8).

Municipal Councils
Every post specified hereunder if the maximum of the salary
scale assigned to the post exceeds Rs. 1,500 per annum :—
Clerks.
Assistant Clerks.
Stenographers.
Assistant Stenographers.
Typists.
Urban Councils
Every post specified hereunder if the maximum of the salary
scale assigned to that post exceeds Rs. 1,200 per annum :—
Clerks.
Assistant Clerks.
Stenographers.
Typists.
Typist-Clerks.
Town Councils
Every post specified hereunder if the maximum of the salary
scale assigned to that post exceeds Rs. 900 per annum:—
Clerks.
Assistant Clerks.

Village Councils

Every post specified hereunder if the maximum of the salary
scale assigned to that post exceeds Rs. 900 per annum :—

Clerks.
Assistant Clerks.


Local Government Service Act, No. 18 of 1969 15

PART III (Sections 10, 11, 12 and 28).

1. Every post of a temporary or casual nature in any local
authority.

2. Every post in a Municipal Council, if the maximum of the
“salary ‘scale assigned to that post does not exceed
Rs. 1,500 per annum.

3. Every post in an Urban Council if the maximum of the
salary scale assigned to that post does not exceed
Rs. 1,200 per annum.

4. Every post in a Town Council or a Village Council if the
maximum of the salary scale assigned to that post does
not exceed Rs. 900 per annum.
