PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC ~
- SOCIALIAST REPUBLIG OF - _
SRI LANKA

~ ARMY
~ (AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 10 OF 1993

| | [Certified on 12th March, 1993]

Printed on the Orders of Government

4

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of March 12, 1993

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price: 45 cents. CO os a Postage: 1.09;


Army (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 1993

L.D.—O, 24/91

[Certified on 12th March, 1993]

AN AcT TO AMEND THe ArmMy Act

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Army (Amendment)
Act, No. 10 of 1993.

2. Section 27 of the Army Act (hereinafter referred to
as the “principal enactment”) is hereby amended by the
addition immediately after paragraph (aa) of that section,
of the following new paragraph :—

“ (aaa) (i) in respect of any period during which he is

(ii)

suspended from the exercise of his office,
pending the conclusion of judicial or dis-
ciplinary proceedings instituted against him
in respect of a prescribed offence, all pay and
allowances, and

in respect of each month of any period
during which he is suspended from the
exercise of his office pending the conclusion
of judicial or disciplinary proceedings
instituted against him in respect of any
other offence, a part of his pay and _ all-
owances for that month as may be _pres-

cribed ; ”.

3. Section 28 of the principal enactment is hereby
amended in subsection (1) of that section as follows :—

(1) by the addition immediately after paragraph (aa)
of that section, of the following new paragraph :-~-

“ (aaa) (i) in respect of any period during which

he is suspended from hig duties pea-
ding the conclusion of judicial or dis-
ciplinary proceedings instituted
against him in respect of a prescribed
offence, all pay and allowances; and

Short title.

Amendment
of section 27
of Chapter
357.

Amendment
of section
28 of the
principal
enactment.


2 Army (Amendment) Act, No. 10 of 1993 |

: (ii) in respect of each month of any
period during which he is suspended
from his duties pending the conclu-
sion of judicial or disciplinary pro-
ceedings instituted against him in
respect of any other offence, a part of
his pay and allowances for that
month as may be. prescribed ;”.

- (2) in proviso (i) of that subsection, by the substitution
for the words “the total amount of such deduc-
tion”, of the words “the total amount of such
deductions, authorised by paragraphs (a), (aa),
(aaa) (ii), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) of this
subsection. ”,

aubele 4, In the event of any inconsistency between Sinhala
prevail in and the Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
case oO ‘ nen

inconsistency. prevail.
