PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA

UNFAIR CONTRACT TERMS
ACT, No. 26 OF 1997

{Certified on 17th October, 1997 ]

Printed on the Order of Government

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka of October 17, 1997

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRi LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO |

Price: Rs. 8.00 Postage : Rs. 4.60


Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997

" [Certified on 17th October, 1997]
L.D.—-O. 51/96.

AN ACT TO IMPOSE LIMITS ON THE EXTENT TO WHICH CIVIL LIABILITY
FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT, OR FOR NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER
BREACH OF DUTY, CAN BE AVOIDED BY MEANS OF CONTRACT TERMS
AND OTHERWISE ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist
Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-—

1. This Act may be cited as the Unfair Contract Terms
Act, No. 26 of 1997.

2. (1) Nothing in sections 3, 4 and 5 shall apply to, or in
relation to, a contract specified in the First Schedule to this
Act. ;

(2) The provisions of sections 3, 4, 5 and 6 shall apply
only to business liability and the references to liability in those
sections shal] be construed accordingly.

3. (1) A contract term or a notice given to persons
generally or to particular persons which purports to exclude
or restrict’ or has the effect of excluding or restricting, a
person’s liability for death or personal injury resulting from
negligence shall be of no effect.

(2) Acontract term or notice given to persons generally or
to particular persons which purports to exclude or restrict or
has the effect of excluding or restricting, a person’s liability
for any other loss or damage resulting from negligence shall
have effect only in so far as such contract term or notice
satisfies the requirement of reasonableness.

(3) Where’a contract term or notice purports to exclude or
restrict or has the effect of excluding or restricting, liability
for negligence, a person’s agreement to such contract term or
awareness of such notice shall not itself be taken as
constituting his acceptance of any risk.

2—D045647—8,500 (97/07)

Short title.

Application.

Avoidance of
liability for
negligence.


Avoidance of
liabitity for
contract.

Unreasonable
indemnity
clauses.

2 Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997

4. (1) This section applies as between parties to a contract
where one of the parties deals as consumer or on the other’s
written standard terms of business.

(2) As against that party the other cannot by reference to
any contract term—

(a) when himself in breach of contract, exclude Or restrict
any liability of his in respect of that breach ; or

. (b) claim to be entitled—

(i) torender a contractual performance substantially
different from that which was reasonably
expected of him under the contract ; or

(ii) in respect of the whole or any part of his
contractual obligation, to render no performance
at all,

except in so far as (in any of the cases mentioned in this
subsection) the contract term satisfies the requirement of
reasonableness.

5. (1) A contract term which purports to impose on a
person dealing as consumer an obligation to indemnify any
other person (whether a party to the contract or not) in respect
of liability that may be incurred by such other person for
negligence or breach of contract shall have effect only in so
far as such contract term satisfies the requirement of
reasonableness.

(2) This section applies whether the liability referred to in
subsection (1)— .

(a) is directly that of the person to be indemnified or is
incurred by him vicariously ;

(6) isto the person dealing as consumer or some other
person.


Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997 = 3
Illustration

A, a ferry owner contracts with B to transport B’s car by
ferry. : .

One of the terms of the contract is that B is to indemnify A
against damage to third parties resulting from the negligent
handling of the car by A’s crew.

The term is valid only if it satisfies the test of
reasonableness.

6. (1) In the case’of goods of a type ordinarily supplied
for private use or consumption, a contract term or notice
contained in, or operating by reference to, a guarantee of
the goods which purports to exclude or restrict or has the
effect of excluding or restricting, liability for any loss or
damage—

(a) arising from the goods proving defective v while in

consumer use ; and :

(6) resultinig from the negligence of a person concemed
in the manufacture’ or distributiotr of the’ goods,

shall be of no effect.’ 7 oo _ ores

(2) In this section—

poo sae Cok 5 .
“consumer use” when used in relation to goods means use,

or possession for use, otherwise than exclusively for
_the purposes of business ;

“guarantee” means a writing which contains or purports

to contain, some promise or assurance, howsoever _

worded, that defects will be made good by complete
or partial replacement or by repair, monetary
compensation or otherwise.

Guarantees.


Sale and Hire
Purchase.

Effect of breach.

4 Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997

7. (1) A contract term which purports to exclude or
restrict or has the effect of excluding or restricting, liability
for breach of obligations arising from—

(a) section 13 of the Sale of Goods Ordinance 3
(5) section 4 (1) of the Consumer Credit Act, No. 29 of
1982,
shall be of no effect.
(2) A contract term which purports to exclude or restrict,
or has the effect of excluding or restricting, as against a person

dealing as consumer, liability for breach of the obligations
arising from—

(a) sections 14, 15 or 16 of the Sale of Goods
Ordinance ; ,
(b) sections 4(2), 4(3), 4(4) or 4 (5) of the Consumer
Credit Act, No. 29 of 1982,
shall be of no effect.

(3) A contract term which purports to exclude or restrict,
or has the effect of excluding or restricting, as against a person

, dealing otherwise than as consumer, liability for breach of

the obligations arising from any of the provisions referred to
in subsection (2) shall have effect only in so far as it satisfies
the requirement of reasonableness.

8. (1) When a contract term is effective, under the
provisions of this Act, only if it satisfies the requirement of
reasonableness, it may be found to meet that requirement and
given effect to , notwithstanding the fact that the contract has
been terminated either by breach or by a party electing to

treat it as repudiated.

(2) Where a contract is affirmed by.a person entitled to
treat it as repudiated, such affirmation shall not be taken as
excluding the requirement of reasonableness in relation to
any contract term.


Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997 5

9. Acontract term which purports to affect or take away,
the rights of a party to such contract arising under, or in
connection with the performance of, another contract to which
he is a party, being rights which relate to the enforcement of
another person’s Ijability which such other person is
prohibited, by the provisions of this Act, from excluding or
restricting, shall be of no effect.

10. (1)Acontract term which is effective, under this Act,
only in so far as it satisfies the requirement of reasonableness
satisfies that requirement if the contract term is a fair and
reasonable one to be included having regard to the
circumstances which were, or ought reasonably to have been
known to or in the contemplation of the parties when the
contract was made.

(2) In determining for the purposes of section 7 whether a
contract term satisfies the requirement of reasonableness
regard shall, without prejudice to the generality of subsection
(1), be had to the matters set out in the Second Schedule to
this Act. Nothing in this subsection shall be read or construed
as preventing a Court or an arbitrator from holding, in
accordance with any rule of law, that a term which purports
to exclude or restrict any relevant liability, is not a term of
that contract. >

(3) A notice (not being a notice having contractual effect)
which is effective, under this Act, only in so far as it satisfies
the requirement of reasonableness, satisfies that requirement
if it is fair and reasonable to allow reliance on it having regard
to all the circumstances obtaining when the liability arose or
would have arisen.

(4) Where by reference to a contract term or notice a person
purports to restrict his liability to a specified sum of money
and the question arises whether such term or notice satisfies
the requirement of reasonableness regard shall be had to—

(a) the resources which such person could expect to be
available to him for the purpose of meeting the liability
should it arise ; and

Evasion by means

of secondary
contracts.

Reasonableness
Test.


Extent of
exemption
clauses.

Sinhala text to
prevail in case of
inconsistency.

Interpretation.

6 Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997.

-(b) how far it was open to such person to cover himself
by insurance.

(S) It is for the party claiming that a contract term or notice
Satisfies the requirement of reasonableness to. show that it
does.

11. To the extent that the provisions of this Act prohibit
the exclusion or restriction of any liability, is also prohibits—

(a) the making of the liability or cits enforcement subject
to restrictive or onerous conditions ;

(b) the exclusion or restriction, of any rights or remedy
in respect of the liability or the subjection of any
person to any prejudice in consequence of his

- pursuring any such right or remedy ; and

(c) the exclusion or restriction of rules of evidence or
procedure,

and to that extent, sections 3, 6 and 7 also prohibit the
exclusion or restriction of liability by reference to terms and
conditions which purport to exclude the relevant obligation
or duty :

Provided that an agreement in writing to submit future
differences to arbitration shall not be regarded, for the
purposes of this Act, as excluding or restricting any such
liability.

12. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala
and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

13. (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise
requires—

“business” includes a profession and the activities of any
government department or local authority or public
corporation ; ;


Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997 7

“business liability” means liability for breach of obligations
or duties arising—

(a) from things done or to be done by a person in
the course of a business (whether his own
business or another’s) ; and

(b) from the occupation of premises used for
business purposes of the occupier.

“goods” has the some meaning as in the Sale of Goods
Ordinance ;

“hire-purchase agreement” has the same meaning as in the
Consumer Credit Act, No. 29 of 1982.

“negligence” means the breach—

(a) of any obligation arising from the express or
implied terms of a contract to take reasonable
care or exercise reasonable skill in the
performance of the contract ; and

(b) of any common law duty to take reasonable care
or exercise reasonable skill.

“notice” includes an announcement, whether or not in
writing, and any other communication;

“personal injury” includes any disease and any impairment
of the physical or mental condition of a person.

, (2) A party to a contract “deals as consumer” in relation to
another party if—

(a) he neither makes the contract in the course ofa
business nor holds himself out as doing so ; and

(b) the other party makes the contract in the course
of a business ; and


8 Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997

(c) in the case of a contract governed by the law of
sale of goods or hire-purchase, the goods passing
under or in pursuance of the contract are of a
type ordinarily supplied for private use or
consumption.

(3) On asale by auction or by competitve tender, the buyer
shall not in any circumstances be regarded as dealing as
consumer.

(4) It is for the person claiming that a party does not deal .
as consumer to show that he does not.

FIRST SCHEDULE (section 2-(1) }
Any contract of Insurance.

Any contract so far as it relates to the creation or transfer of an
interest in land, or to the termination of any such interest.

Any contract so far as it relates to the creation or transfer of a
right or interest in any patent, trade mark, industrial design or other
intellectual property, or to the termination of-any such right or intefest.

Any contract so far as it relates—

(a) to the formation or dissolution of a company or
partnership ; or

(b) to the constitution or the rights or obligations of its members
or partners.

Any contract so far as it relates to the creation or transfer of
securities or of any right or interest in securities.


Unfair Contract Terms Act, No. 26 of 1997 9
SECOND SCHEDULE

“GUIDELINES” FOR APPLICATION OF REASONABLENESS TEST

The matters to which regard is to be had in particular for the
purposes of section 7, are any of the following which appear to be
relevant —

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

{e)

the strength of the bargaining positions of the parties relative
to each other, taking into account (among other things)
alternative means by which the customer's requirments could
have been met;

whether the customer received an inducement to agree to
the term, or in accepting it had an opportunity of entering
into a similar contract with other persons, but without having
to accept a similar term,

whether the customer knew or ought reasonably to have
known of the existence and extent of the term (having regard,
among other things, to any custom of the trade and any
previous course of dealing between the parties) ;

where the term excludes or restricts any relevant liability if
some condition is not complied with, whether it was
reasonable at the time of the contract to expect that
compliance with that condition would be practicable ;

whether the goods were manufactured, processed or adapted
to the special order of the customer.


eee

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180 (Foreign),

payable to the SuPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, No. 32, TRANSWORKS House,
Lotus Roan, Cotomeo 01 before 15th December each year in respect of the year following.
