PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATICSOCIALIST REPUBLIC OFSRI LANKA

INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED SHIPBROKERSOF SRI LANKA (INCORPORATION)ACT, No. 34 OF 2024

Printed on the Order of Government

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA

TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 24.00Postage : Rs. 150.00

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka of June 20, 2024

This Act can be downloaded from www.documents.gov.lk

1Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

L.D.O. (Inc.) 1/2022

AN ACT TO INCORPORATE THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED SHIPBROKERS

OF SRI LANKA

WHEREAS an Institute called and known as the Institute ofChartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka has heretofore beenestablished in Sri Lanka for the purpose of effectually carryingout its objects and transacting all matters connected with thesaid Institute according to the rules agreed to by its members:

AND WHEREAS the said Institute has heretofore successfullycarried out and transacted the several objects and matters forwhich it was established and has applied to be incorporatedand it will be for the public advantage to grant the saidapplication:

BE it, therefore enacted by the Parliament of the DemocraticSocialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

1. This Act may be cited as the Institute of CharteredShipbrokers of Sri Lanka (Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024.

2. From and after the date of commencement of this Act,such and so many persons as now are members of the Instituteof Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred toas the Institute) and shall hereafter be admitted as members ofthe body corporate hereby constituted, shall have perpetualsuccession under the name and style of the Institute ofChartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka (hereinafter referred to asthe body corporate), and by that name may sue and be suedwith full power and authority to have, and use a common sealand to alter the same at its pleasure.

Preamble

Short title

Incorporation ofthe Institute ofCharteredShipbrokers ofSri Lanka

[Certified on 19th of June, 2024]

2Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

3. (1) The general objects for which the body corporateis constituted are hereby declared to be-

(a) to promote professionalism in the shipping arenaamong the members of the body corporate byproviding them training opportunities in the shippingbusiness;

(b) to create awareness among persons involved in theship broking business, of the advantage of employingwell-educated staff having a proper understanding ofthe shipping business, in such field;

(c) to hold seminars and workshops for the benefit ofthose employed in the ship broking business;

(d) to provide study courses relevant to the qualifyingexaminations for membership of the body corporate;

(e) to promote understanding and co-operation withinstitutions having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate within and outside Sri Lanka; and

(f) to assist the relevant authorities with the consent ofsuch authorities

(i)to provide training in accordance withaccepted principles of the shipping businessto persons who desire to pursue a career insuch business;

(ii)to conduct or provide to conduct courses ofstudy and hold examinations in collaborationwith recognized educational institutions inthe field of shipping business; and

(iii)to undertake, promote and facilitate studiesin the field of shipping business,

subject to any applicable written law, to the extent permittedby such law.

General objectsof the bodycorporate

3Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(2) In the implementation of the objects specified insubsection (1), the body corporate shall ensure that suchimplementation shall be carried out without any distinctionbased on race, religion, language, caste, gender, politicalopinion, place of birth or such other grounds.

4. The objects of the body corporate shall be carried outin such manner so as not to create any conflict between thework of the body corporate and any work being carried outsimultaneously by any Ministry or Department of theGovernment, or of any Provincial Council, Local Authorityor public corporation.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, and the rulesmade under section 7, the management and administrationof the affairs of the body corporate shall be carried out by aBoard of Management (hereinafter referred to as the Board)consisting of such number of office bearers as may be specifiedby the rules made under section 7.

(2) (a) The Board of the Institute holding office on the dayimmediately preceding the date of commencement of thisAct shall, subject to the rules made under paragraph (b),function as an Interim Board of the body corporate until thefirst Board is appointed or elected in the manner provided forby rules made under section 7.

(b) Subject to the provisions of section 7, the Interim Boardshall have the power to make rules for the interimadministration of the body corporate, not inconsistent withthe provisions of this Act or any other written law.

(c) Any decision of the Interim Board shall be taken bythe majority of its members present at such meeting.

Body corporateto ensure noconflict withwork of Ministryor Department ofthe Government,or ProvincialCouncil, LocalAuthority orpubliccorporation

Management ofthe affairs of thebody corporate

4Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(d) The first Board of the body corporate shall be appointedor elected within one year of the date of commencement ofthis Act.

(3) (a) Every office bearer of the Board including thepatrons and advisers shall be appointed or elected for a periodof three years and any such office bearer, patron or advisorshall be eligible for re-appointment or re-election after lapseof the said period of three years.

(b) In the event of a vacancy occurring due to the death,resignation, incapacity or removal from office of an officebearer, the Board shall, having regard to the rules of the bodycorporate, elect or appoint a person to fill such vacancy.

(c) The person elected or appointed under paragraph (b)shall hold office only for the unexpired portion of the term ofoffice of the member whom he succeeds.

6. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall have the power to do,perform and execute all such acts and matters as are necessaryor desirable for the promotion or furtherance of the objectsof the body corporate or any one of them, including thepower-

(a)to purchase, rent, construct, renovate and otherwiseobtain lands or buildings, which may by requiredfor the purposes of the body corporate and to dealwith or dispose of the same as may be determinedby the Board with a view to promoting the objectsof the body corporate;

(b)to enter into and perform or carry out, whetherdirectly or through any officer or agent authorizedin that behalf by the body corporate, all suchcontracts or agreements as may be necessary for theattainment of the objects or the exercise of thepowers of the body corporate;

Powers of thebody corporate

5Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(c)to borrow or raise funds with or without securitiesand to receive grants, gifts or donations in cash orkind for the attainment of the objects of the bodycorporate:

Provided that, the Board shall obtain the priorwritten approval of the Department of ExternalResources in respect of all foreign grants, gifts ordonations made to the body corporate;

(d)to make, draw, accept, discount, endorse, negotiate,buy, sell and issue bills of exchange, cheques,promissory notes and other negotiable instrumentsand to open, operate, maintain and close accountsin any bank;

(e)to invest any funds that are not immediatelyrequired for the purposes of the body corporate, insuch manner as the Board may determine;

(f)to undertake, accept, execute, perform andadminister any lawful trust having objects similarto those of the body corporate or any real or personalproperty with a view to promoting the objects ofthe body corporate;

(g)to appoint, employ, dismiss or terminate the servicesof officers and servants of the body corporate andexercise disciplinary control over them and to paythem such salaries, allowances and gratuities as maybe determined by the body corporate in terms ofthe rules made under section 7 of the Act;

(h)to determine and levy fees, subscriptions andcontributions in respect of membership andadmission to membership of the body corporate;

6Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(i)to determine and levy fees, in respect of admissionto courses of study and examinations conductedby or on behalf of the body corporate in accordancewith the consent of relevant authorities;

(j)to compile a Code of Ethics to be followed by themembers of the body corporate and secureadherence thereto by such members;

(k)to organize and conduct conferences, seminars,forums, workshops and meetings relating toshipping business in Sri Lanka and abroad with aview to promoting the objectives of the bodycorporate;

(l) to establish, promote, foster and maintain goodrelations with other local and foreign institutionshaving objects similar to those of the body corporate;

(m) to train officers and servants in Sri Lanka or abroadfor the purposes of the body corporate;

(n) to assess the eligibility of candidates for admissionto various grades of membership; and

(o) generallly, to do all such acts and things authorizedby this Act for the achievement of the objects of thebody corporate.

7. (1) It shall be lawful for the body corporate, from timeto time, at any general meeting of the body corporate and bya majority of not less than two-thirds of the members presentand voting, to make rules, not inconsistent with theprovisions of this Act or any other written law, for all or anyof the following matters:-

Rules of thebody corporate

7Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(a)the classification of membership, admission,withdrawal, expulsion or resignation of membersand fees payable by the members and maintenanceof a register of members;

(b)the election of office bearers of the Board orvacation of or removal from office of office bearersand the powers, duties and functions of the officebearers;

(c)the terms and conditions of appointment, powers,functions and duties of various officers, agents andservants of the body corporate;

(d)the procedure to be followed for the summoningand holding of meetings of the body corporate andof the Board, or any sub-committee thereof, noticesand agenda of such meetings, the quorum and theconduct of business thereat;

(e)the qualifications and disqualifications to be amember of the Board and the body corporate; and

(f)generally, the management of the affairs of the bodycorporate and the accomplishment of its objectsand dissolution of the body corporate.

(2) Any rule made by the body corporate may be amended,altered, added to or rescinded at a like meeting and in likemanner, as a rule made under subsection (1) of this section.

(3) The rules made under subsection (1) shall be publishedin the Gazette and shall come into effect on the date thereof.

8Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(4) Every rule made by the body corporate shall, withinthree months after its publication in the Gazette be broughtbefore Parliament for approval. Any rule which is not soapproved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the dateof such disapproval but without prejudice to anythingpreviously done thereunder.

(5) Notification of the date on which any such rule isdeemed to be so rescinded under subsection (4) shall bepublished in the Gazette.

(6) The members of the body corporate shall at all timesbe subject to the rules of the body corporate.

8. The Board shall maintain a register of members inwhich name, address and other essential details of themembers shall be inscribed.

9. (1) The body corporate shall have its own Fund.

(2) All moneys received by way of gifts, bequests,subscriptions, contributions, fees or grants for and on accountof the body corporate shall be deposited in one or morebanks approved by the Board to the credit of the bodycorporate, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) ofsection 6.

(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund, all such sums ofmoney as are required to defray any expenditure incurredby the body corporate in the exercise, performance anddischarge of the powers, duties and functions under the Act.

10. (1) The financial year of the body corporate shall bethe calendar year.

(2) The body corporate shall cause proper accounts to bekept of its income and expenditure, assets and liabilities andall other transactions of the body corporate.

Register ofmembers

Fund of thebody corporate

Accounts andAuditing

9Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

(3) The accounts of the body corporate shall be auditedannually by a qualified auditor and be certified by suchqualified auditor.

(4) For the purposes of this section, qualified auditormeans-

(a)an individual who, being a member of theInstitute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lankaor of any other Institute established by law,possesses a certificate to practice as anAccountant, issued by the Council of suchInstitute; or

(b)a firm of Accountants, each of the residentpartners of which, being a member of the Instituteof Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka or of anyother Institute established by law, possesses acertificate to practice as an Accountant, issuedby the Council of such Institute.

11. (1) The Board shall prepare a report of the activitiesof the body corporate for each financial year and submitsuch report together with the audited statement of accountscertified by a qualified auditor to the Secretary to theMinistry of the Minister assigned the subject of Ports andShipping, and to the Registrar of Voluntary Social ServicesOrganization appointed under the Voluntary Social ServicesOrganization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of1980 before the expiration of six months of the yearsucceeding the year to which such report relates.

(2) A separate statement of accounts relating to the foreignand local moneys received by the body corporate, duringthe financial year shall be attached to the report referred toin subsection (1).

Annual Report

10Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

12. All debts and liabilities of the Institute existing onthe day immediately preceding the date of commencementof this Act, shall be paid by the body corporate herebyconstituted and all debts due to and subscriptions andcontributions payable to the Institute on that day shall bepaid to the body corporate for the purposes of this Act.

13. Subject to the provisions of this Act and any otherwritten law, the body corporate shall be able and capable inlaw to take and hold any property, movable or immovable,which may become vested in it by virtue of any purchase,grant, gift, testamentary disposition or otherwise, and allsuch property shall be held by the body corporate for thepurpose of this Act and subject to the rules of the bodycorporate made under section 7, with power to sell, mortgage,lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of the same.

14. The moneys and property of the body corporatehowever derived shall be applied solely towards thepromotion of the objects of the body corporate and noportion thereof shall be paid or transferred directly orindirectly by way of dividend, bonus or profit or otherwisehowsoever to the members of the body corporate.

15. (1) The seal of the body corporate shall not be affixedto any instrument whatsoever, except in the presence of twomembers of the Board who shall sign their names to theinstrument in token of their presence and such signing shallbe independent of the signing of any person as a witness.

(2) The seal of the body corporate shall be in the custody

of an office bearer of the Board as may be decided by the

Board.

Seal of the bodycorporate

Debts due byand payable tothe Institute

Body corporatemay holdpropertymovable andimmovable

Application ofmoneys andproperty

11Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

16. For the purpose of discharging the debts andliabilities of the body corporate or for any other purpose, amember of the body corporate shall not be liable to makeany contribution exceeding the amount of such subscriptionas may be due from such person to the body corporate.

17. (1) If upon the dissolution of the body corporate thereremains after the satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities,any property whatsoever, such property shall not bedistributed among the members of the body corporate, butshall be given or transferred to any other appropriateinstitution having objects similar to those of the bodycorporate, and which is by the rules thereof, prohibited fromdistributing any income or property among its members.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) the appropriateinstitution shall be determined by the members of the bodycorporate with the approval of the Secretary to the Ministryof the Minister assigned the subject of Ports and Shippingand the Registrar of the Voluntary Social ServicesOrganization appointed under the Voluntary Social ServicesOrganization (Registration and Supervision) Act, No. 31 of1980, immediately before the dissolution at a generalmeeting by the majority of votes of the members present.

18. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

bank means a bank licensed under the provisionsof the Banking Act, No. 30 of 1988;

shipbroking business means a professional servicecarried out by companies and individuals inthe industry of shipping business;

Limitation ofliability ofmembers

Propertyremaining ondissolution

Interpretation

12Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

shipping business includes ship sale and purchase,ship management, dry cargo chartering, tankerchartering, port agency, liner trades, logisticsand multimodal transport, port and terminalmanagement, ship finance, shipping law,insurance, bunkering and ship classification;

law shall have the same meaning assigned to suchexpression in the Constitution;

local authority means any Municipal Council,Urban Council or Pradeshiya Sabha andincludes any authority created or establishedby, or under, any law to exercise, perform ordischarge the powers, duties and functionscorresponding to or similar to the powers,duties and functions exercised, performed ordischarged by any such Council or Sabha;

public corporation means any corporation, boardor other body which was or is established by orunder any written law other than theCompanies Act, No. 07 of 2007, with funds orcapital wholly or partly provided by theGovernment by way of grant, loan or otherwise;and

written law means any law and subordinatelegislation including statutes made by aProvincial Council and regulations made undersuch statutes, Orders, Proclamations, Rules, By-Laws and Regulations made or issued by anybody or person having power or authority underany law to make or issue the same.

13Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

Saving of therights of theRepublic andothers

Sinhala text toprevail in case ofinconsistency

19. Nothing in this Act contained shall prejudice or affectthe rights of the Republic or of any body politic or corporate.

20. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhalaand Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.

14Institute of Chartered Shipbrokers of Sri Lanka(Incorporation) Act, No. 34 of 2024

English Acts of the Parliament can be purchased at the PRAKASHANA PIYASA, DEPARTMENT OFGOVERNMENT PRINTING, NO. 118, DR. DANISTER DE SILVA MAWATHA, COLOMBO 8.