& >
Fea
jG
PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
SRI LANKA BROADCASTING CORPORATION
(AMENDMENT)
ACT, No. 48 OF 1988
[Certified on 30th November, 1988]
Printed on the Orders of Government
Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of December 2, 1988
7O BE PURCHASED A THE GOVERNIMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO
Price : Re, 1.20 Postage : 75 cents


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No. 48 of 1988
[Certified on 30th November, 1968]

L. D—O, 49/83. .

AN Act To AMEND tHE Sar LaNkA BROADCASTING CORPORATION
‘Act, No. 37 oF 1966

BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic Socialist

Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :—

1. This Act may be cited as the Sri Lanka Broadcasting $hort
Corporation (Amendment) Act, No. 48 of 1988, and shall and date
come into operation on such date as the Minister may Sveration,
appoint by Order published in the Gazette,

2 Secion 3 of the Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation dywendment
Act, No, 37 of 1966, (hereinafter referred to as the“ principal of Act No. 37
enactment”) is hereby amended in subsection (1) of that °%19°%
section, by the insertion immediately after paragraph (b)
of that subsection of the following paragraph :—-

“ (bb) to register persons who carry on the business of

importing, selling, manufacturing, or assembling
radio receiving sets ;".

3% Section 4 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows :— al

(1) by the substitution for paragraphs (I) and (m) of enactment.

‘that section of the following paragraphs :—
* (1) do all such things as the Corporation considers
to be in the interests of the community for
the purpose. of developing and improving
radio broadcasting talent ;
(m) act in combination or association with any
person or body of persons whether in- .
corporated or not and whether in Sri Lanka
or elsewhere, for any of the aforesaid
purposes 5” 5
(2) by the addition immediately after paragraph (m) of :
‘that subsection of the following paragraphs :—
“ (n) issue and renew licences under Part IIa for
the possession and use ‘of radio receiving
sets and to appoint agents to issue and
renew such licences and to ensure. that
such licences have been obtained or
renewed; and
‘2 000067—8,660 (88/11)


2 Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No, 48 of 1988
(0) call for information and returns in respect of
imports, sales, manufacture or assembling of
radio receiving sets from all persons engaged
in such import, sales, manufacture or
assembling of radio receiving sets.”.
Insertion
ohne 4. The following new section is hereby inserted
inthe immediately after section 4 of the principal enactment and
Thoviment, shall have effect as section 4a of that enactment :—
“Appoint. 4a. The Corporation may from time to
agents, time appoint any person or body of persons,
whether incorporated or not, to be an agent
of the Corporation for the purposes of
igsuing and renewing licences under Part
Ifa of this Act, and to pay such agent, such
: remuneration as may be agreed upon
between the Corporation and such agent.”.
Amendment
otsection 28 5, Section 23 of the principal enactment is hereby
principal amended as follows :—
enactment.
(1) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (c) of
that section of the following paragraph :—
“ (cc) all such suins as may be credited to the fund
under section 42a ;”;
(2) by the substitution for paragraph (d) of that section
of the following paragraph :—
“ (@ alll sums of money received as fees each yeat
for the issue and renewal of radio
licences 5";
(3) by the insertion immediately after paragraph (4)
‘of that section of the following paragraph :—
“ (dd) all sums of money received as fees each year
for the issue of Certificates of Registration
under Part Illa of this Act ; and”,


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment) 3
Act No. 48 of 1988

6. The following new Part is hereby inserted immediately [neertion of
after Part I of the principal enactment and shall have jn :he
effect as Part I{1a of that enactment :— prtnetpal

“PART Ila
Issue oF Licences AND REGISTRATION

Prohibition 82a, (1) On or after the relevant date no
ossession Person shall possess or use any radio
angus of receiving set except under the authority of
Teceiving a licence issued in that behalf by the
sets, Corporation.

(2) The requirements of subsection (1)

shall not apply—

(@ to the possession and use of a radio
receiving set by any person at a
school, a Higher Educational Instita-
tion or other institution which the
Minister may specify by Order
published in the Gazette, for the
purposes of this section, having
regard to the fact that social or
educational activities of benefit to
the community are being carried
on at such institution ;

(b) to the possession and use of a radio
receiving set by any importer, seller,
manufacturer or an assembler of
radio receiving sets who is regis-
tered and holds a Certificate of
Registration issued under section
32x of this Act, in the course of his
business as such importor, sel!cr,
manufacturer or assembler }

“ (e) to the’ possession and use of a radio
receiving set by a repairer of radio
receiving sets in the course of his

be business as such repairer ;

(@) to the use by any person, of a radio
receiving set with the permission,
express or implied, or on the instruct-
tions, of the holder of a licence
issued under this Part in respect of
‘that set at the premises specified in
the licence ;


4 Sri-Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No. 48 of 1988
(e) to the possession and use of a radio
receiving set by any person
employed in the Corporation or in
any private broadcasting station
established and maintained under a
ike licence issued by the Minister under
section 44 for the purposes of the
Corporation of that station.
(3) (a) Where the Minister considers that
several radio receiving sets are likely to be
~ used in any category of premises, he may,
by Order published in the Gazette, declare
7 that the provisions of this section shall apply
> in respect of that category of premises.
oe (b) The owner of any premises
: included in a category of premises to which
. this section applies, may in lieu of applying
for a licence in respect of every radio
receiving set installed in such premises, ap-
a ply for a licence in respect of these premises.
aie Every application made under this subsec-
tion shall be accompanied by the prescribed
: fee. Different fees may be prescribed in res-
= pect of different category of premises,
: having regard to the number of radio
. receiving sets likely to be used in that
oe category of premises.
(©) The provisions of section 32c, 320,
32 and 32r shall, mutatis mutandis, apply
to, and in relation to, the application for,
eee the issue and renewal of, licences issued
ro under subsection (2).


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment) 9
‘Act No. 48 of 1988
(a) Where a licence issued under this
section in respect of any premises is in force,
the possession and use of a radio receiving
set by any person on such premises shal! be
deemed to be under the authority of a
licence issued under setion 32c.
For the purposes of this Section “Higher
Educational Institution” shall have the same
meaning as in the Universities Act, No. 16 of
1978,
Right ot 32s, Notwithstanding the provisions of
Who were section 32a, any person who immediately
in using _prior to the relevant date was having in his
Tecclving possession a radio receiving set, shall be
wegen entitled to possess and use such radio
ee receiving set, without a licence in that behalf
for a period of three months commencing
from the relevant date.
Tssue of a 32c, (1) ‘The Corporation or any agent
‘Hoenig. shall, on application made therefore, in such
form as may be prescribed, containing the
prescribed particulars, and on payment of
the prescribed fee, issue a licence in respect
ofa radio receiving set, authorizing the
applicant to possess and use such radio
receiving set.
(2) Every application for a licence in
as respect of any radio receiving set under this
“Part, shall be made to the Corporation or any
as agent, in the prescribed form and shall
contain the prescribed particulars.
: (8) Every licence issued under this Part
shall be—
(a) in such form as may be presseribed ;
(b) valid for a period of one year; and
(o) renewable after the expiration of the
period specified in the licence.
SD oomer (971)


6 Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No. 48 of 1988
‘Terms and 3%, Every licence issued in respect of any
conditions radio receiving set under this Part shall
licence, be subject to such terms and conditions as
may be prescibed with regard to the use and
transfer of that licence.
fF change 32z, Every holder of a licence shall within
particulars thirty days of any change in the particulars
application _in his application, for a licence issued under
Jopemea, this Part inform the Corporation or any
agent in writing of such change.
Renewal of 32, (1) The Corporation or any agent
° may, on application made therefore in such
form as may be prescribed, and on payment
of the prescribed fee renew any licence,
issued under section 32c, and the licence
which is renewed shall be valid for a period
of one year from the date specified therein.
(2) Every application for the renewal of a
licence under this Part, shall be made to the
Corporation or any agent in the prescribed
form within three months of the date of
expiry specified therein,
Penalty for 329, =
‘possessing 1) Any peeacee
radio (a) who possesses or uses a radio receiving
receiving set, without a licence in that behalf,
Srithout the issued under this Part ;
radio
receiving (b) who acts in contravention of, or fails
fet being
ficencedand to comply with any term or condi-
— tion of, a licence issued under this
ofterms Past,
and. P
Gonditions shall be guilty of an offence under this Act,
and shall on conviction after summary trial
before a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding two thousand five hundred rupees
or to imprisonment of either description for
a terms not exceeding six months or to both
such fine and imprisonment.


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment) 7
Act No. 48 of 1988
(2) The Magistrate may on conviction of
any person of any offence under subsection
(), in addition to any punishment which
he may impose under that subsection make
order that—
(a) the licence, if any, issued under this
. Part in respect of the radio receiving
set in connection with which the
offence is committed be cancelled ;
. and
(b) any radio receiving set in connection
with which the offence is committed
> or which was used in or in connection
with the commission of the offence
- be forfeited to the State.

. (3) Any radio receiving set forfeited under
subsection (2) shall upon such forfeiture be
vested absolutely in the State, Such vesting
shall take effect—

(a) after the expiration of the period with-
in which an appeal may be preferred
to the Court of Appeal against the
order of the Magistrate ; or

(b) where an appeal has been preferred to
‘the Court of Appeal against the
order of the Magistrate upon the
determination of such appeal, con-
fitming or up-holding the order of
forfeiture,

Surcharge 321, Where any person applies to the Cor-

Heonce poration or any agent for the renewal of a

ixenS"°t cence issued under section 30c after the

pela date of expiry specified in such licence, the
. Corporation or such agent may renew such

licence, subject to the payment by the

applicant of a surcharge at the prescribed

rate ; so however the maximum rate so

specified shall not exceed ten per centum of

the fee so payble for the renewal of such

5 licence


8 Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No, 48 of 1988
Prohibition 323. (1) On or after the relevant date no
onthe © person shall carry on the business of impor-
‘usiness ot ting, selling, manufacturing, or assemblilng
‘rlimg && any radio receiving set, except’ under the
ot radio authority of a Certificate of Registration
fels, without issued in that behalf by the Corporation ;
Cerificate of
Registration. (2) The requirements of subsection (1)
shall not apply to the import, sale, manufac-
ture or assembling of a radio receiving set
by any person who has been issued a licence
to establish and maintain a radio broadces-
ting station under section 44.
rigid 32x. Notwithstanding the provisions of
who were
farrvingon section 32y a person who immediately prior
feforethe to the relevant date was carrying on the
a business of importing, selling, manufacturing
or assembling, any radio receiving set, shall
‘be entitled to carry on such business without
a Certificate of Registration under this Part
for a period of three months commencing
from the relevant date.
Registration 32, The Corporation shall—
‘of person
arrying on (@) on application made therefor, in such
porting, form as may be prescribed, together
ee with a certified copy of the Certifi-
sets cate of Registration issued under the
Business Names Ordinance (Chapter
149) relating to the business, in con-
nection with which the application
. . is made; and
sn (®) on payment of the prescribed fee,
i _ register any person with the Cor-
big ag Poration and issue to such person a
Certificate of Registration authori-
Ff" wake zing such person to carry on the
business of importing, selling, manu-
facturing or assembling radio recei-
7 ‘ving sets, in connection with whic:.
. e the application is made.


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment) 9
Act No. 48 of 1988
Application 32m, Every application for registration
fysstration, | Under this Part shall be made to the Cor-
poration in such form as may be prescribed
containing the prescribed particulars,
together with a certified copy of the Certifi-
cate of Registration issued under the Busi-
ness Names Ordinance (Chapter 149) rela-
ting to the business in connection with which
the application made.
Termsand 32N, Every Certificate of Registration
of the issued under this Part shall be subject to
Gerieste such terms and conditions set out in the
Registration. Schedule hereto.
Penalty for 32, (1) Any person who—
poe (a) carries on the business of importing,
selling &©, selling, manufacturing or assembling
oe gai radio receiving sets without a Certi-
‘without a ficate of Registration issued in that
coms behalf, or
Eontravention (0) acts in contravention of, or fails to
pole los comply with any terms or conditions
ofthe of a Certificate of Registration issued
Gpancate under this Part,
Registration,
shall be guilty of an offence and shall on
conviction after summary trial before a
Magistrate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
two thousand five hundred rupees or to
4 imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
. months or to both such fine and imprison-
Td. ment.
(2) The Magistrate on conviction of any
person of any offence under subsection (1)
. may, in addition to any punishment he may
° impose under that subsection having regard
hae to the gravity of the offence make order—
=e (a) suspending, for a period to be specified
eet in such order the Certificate of
Registration in connection with
which the offence is committed; or
; (®) cancelling such Certificate of Regis-
tration,


10 Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No. 48 of 1988
Liability of 329, Where an offence under this Part is
fees committed by a dody of persons, then—
offences (a) if that body of persons is a body-cor.
conmmattsd by porate, every person who at the time.
corporate of the commission of the offence was
— a Director, General Manager, Secre-
rate, tary or other similar officer of that
body corporate ; or

(b) if that body of persons is a firm, every
person who at the time of the com-
mission of the offence was a partner
of that firm,

shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence
unless he proves that the offence was com-
mitted without his knowledge or connivance
and that he exercised all such deligance to
prievent the commission of the offence as he
ought to have exercised having regard to the
natute of his functions in all circumstances. ”.
Insertion of
Pa ae 7. The following new section is hereby inserted
inthe.” immediately after section 40 of the principal enactment and
principal shall have effect as section 40a of that enactment :—
Snactment,
“Magistrate 40a. (1) Where a Magistrate is satisfied on
tant search information received on oath that there is
Warrants. reasonable ground to believe that, in con-
travention of the provisions of this Act the
person against whom the information is
given—

(a) 1s possessing or using a radio receiv-
ing set ;

(®) is carrying on the business of impor-
ting, selling, manufacturing or
assemibing radio receiving sets,

in any premises within his jurisdiction
such Magistrate may, grant a search warrant
to any officer of the Corporation to enter
such premises, to make inquiries from any
persen found thereon and to selz» any radio
receiving set in connection with which such
contravention is com:nitted.


Sri Lanka Broadcasting Corporation (Amendment) 11
Act No. 48 of 1988
(2) When an officer of the Corporation
seizes any radio receiving set under sub-
section (1), he shall produce such radio
reqziving set within a period of seven days
from the date of seizure before the Magis-
7 trate’s Court within whose jurisdiction
7 that radio receiving set is seized, and
upon the production of that radio receiving
set, the court shall make such order as
he may deem fit relating to the custody of
that radio receiving set.”.

8, Section 42 of the principal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended by th substitution for the words “‘be liable to a Or 4pc™
fine’, of the words “‘be liable unless otherwise expressly Principal
provided to a fine”. ‘snnesmainks

9. The following new section is hereby inserted imme- Insertion
diately after section 42 of the principal enactment and shall 36" 49.
have effect as section 42a of that enactment :— inthe
«pwothird of 42a. Two thirds of all fines imposed’ by enactinent.
fine when court for any offence under this Act when
tobe recovered shall be credited to the Fund of
‘regited a the Corporation.”,
ofthe
Corporation.

10. Section 48 of the prine'pal enactment is hereby Amendment
amended as follows :— of section 48
(1) by the insertion immfdiately preceding the definition principal
of “broadcasting” of the following definitions:  “™actment.

“agent” in any context relating to a licence under
Part JI A of this Act means any person or
body of persons whether incorporated or not
appointed to be such agent by the Corpora-
ticn, under section 44 of this Act;

* premises” menng any building or part of a buil-
ding together with the land appertaining
thereto ;”

(2) by the addition immediately after the definition of

programme” of the following definitions :—

“radio receiving set” means a device connected
to an internal or external serial or other
source of radio signal in order to make
available in some desired from the required
informaticn ;

“relevant date” means the date on which Part IIA
of this Act comes into operation ;.


12 Sri Lanka Broudcasting Corporation (Amendment)
Act No, 43 of 1988
Honstgti- 11, From and after the relevant date the provisions of
certain the Telecommunications Ordinance (Chapter 192) relating
a eel to licences shall not apply to, or in relation to, the import,
Telecommuni sale, manufacture, assembly, possession or use of radio
Gatien ce, _‘Teceiving sets.

‘paaitian, 12, The following new Schedule is hereby added imme-

Schedule diately after section 48 of the principal enactment.

in the

principal

enactment, “SCHEDULE (Section 32N).

‘Terms and conditions of the Certificate of Registration issued

‘under section 323.

1. The Cextificate of Registration shell not be transferable.

2, The Certificate of Rogistration shall be exhibited in a cons-
picious place in the place of business to which it relates.

3. Every holder of the Certificate of Registration shall keep and
maintain a register in such form as may be prescribed and shall
enter or cattse to be entered therein the particulars relating to
every transaction of his business.

4. Every such register kept and maintained shall be available
for inspection by any officer authorized in that behalf by the
Director-General of the Corporation.

7 5, (1) Every holder of a Certificate of Registration shall furnish,
to the Corporation, when called upon to do so by the Corporation,
such return or other information, in respect of his business,

2) Bvery return furnished under the preceding paragraph shall
be verified by a declaration to the effect that the particulars stated
therein are true and accurate,

6. Every holder of a Certificate of Registration shall within thirty
deys of any change in the particulars stated in his application for
registration, inform the Corporation in writing of such change.

17. Every holder of the Certificate of Registration shall issue a
receipt with his signature on it, to the person with or on behalf of
‘whom such transaction is made stating—

(@) the name of that person and the description and address of
the premises and the make and the registered number of
the vehicle in which such radio receiving set is to be kept ;

(®) the nature of the transaction;

(©) the make and the number of the radio receiving set or sets
in respect of which the transaction is made;

(a) the date of the transaction,

and shall keep a copy of every such receipt and produce it on
demand to the Director-General of the Corporation or any person
authorized by him in that behalf”.
